In a story April 1 about the Trump administration's treatment of skilled immigrants, The Associated Press reported erroneously that the administration ended a program to admit foreign entrepreneurs. A judge ruled in December that the program must take effect, though the administration has not approved any applications and says it will rescind the program.A corrected version of the story is below:Trump says he wants skilled migrants but creates new hurdlesTrump wants the US immigration system to focus on skills instead of family ties, but his administration is making it harder on skilled immigrantsBy NICHOLAS RICCARDIAssociated PressIt may be a while before President Donald Trump gets another chance at creating a new, "merit-based" immigration system, a keystone of his four-part plan that Congress rejected last month. In the meantime, his administration is busy making it harder, not easier, for skilled migrants to come work in the United States.The administration says it will end an Obama-era program to admit foreign entrepreneurs who want to start companies in the United States. It is more aggressively scrutinizing visas to skilled workers from other countries. And it is contemplating ending a provision that allows spouses of those skilled workers to be employed in the U.S.The administration and its backers contend it's trying to fix flaws in the existing, employer-centric skilled immigration system while advocating for a complete overhaul of America's immigration system."The stuff that they're actually doing is not so much restricting skilled immigration as enforcing the law," said Mark Krikorian of the Center for Immigration Studies, which supports reducing immigration. "They're rolling back some of the extralegal measures that other administrations have taken."A primary avenue for skilled immigrants to enter the United States is the H1B visa for specialty workers, which is heavily used by the technology industry. About 85,000 visas are issued annually in a lottery system. Some critics argue they are a way for companies to avoid hiring U.S. citizens; Trump himself has said H1B recipients shouldn't even be considered skilled.In 2016, two technology workers sued Disney, alleging 250 U.S. employees were laid off and many were forced to train replacements who were hired on H1B visas. A federal judge dismissed the lawsuit, saying Disney was following existing immigration laws.The Trump administration has increased its scrutiny of H1B applications, requiring renewals be submitted in person and asking for additional proof the workers are needed and are being paid top tier."This increase reflects our commitment to protecting the integrity of the immigration system," said Joanne Fereirra, a spokeswoman for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. She added that 92.5 percent of the visas are still approved, only two percentage points lower than under the Obama administration in 2016.Still, businesses have noticed a change."We've got employees that are going through the process, who have gone through such a level of scrutiny and interrogatory that is unprecedented," said Dean Garfield, president of the Information Technology Industry Council, which advocates for H1B visas and has had one of its own workers have to move back overseas because of delays in approving the requisite visa.The extra time with H1B visas is only part of the administration's changes to skilled, work-based immigration.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Last year, Trump signed an executive order that directed all government agencies to "rigorously enforce and administer the laws governing entry into the United States of workers from abroad" to ensure the maximum number of U.S. citizens have jobs. The order also called for shifting H1Bs from lower-paid workers to higher-paid ones who truly have skills that can't be obtained from the native workforce.The administration also moved to stop an Obama administration program that was about to start last year to let international entrepreneurs who start companies in the United States live in the country for renewable, 30-month stints. Though a judge in December blocked the government's effort prevent the program from taking effect, the Trump administration says it has not approved any of the about 10 entries it has received and still plans to end the program.Also in December, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security released its new regulatory agenda which included further, unspecified changes to the H1B program. The administration also indicated it will roll back the STEM OPT program expanded by President Barack Obama that lets international science and technology students work legally in the U.S. for up to three years.Meanwhile, the State Department said last week it is seeking to further enhance vetting of potential immigrants and visitors by requiring all U.S. visa applicants to submit their social media usernames, previous email addresses and phone numbers — information that was previously sought only from applicants identified for extra scrutiny. The department estimates 710,000 immigrant visa applicants and 14 million non-immigrant visa applicants will be affected annually.Akash Negi, 26, graduated last month with a master's in sciences and analytics from Pennsylvania's Harrisburg University of Science and Technology that he earned while working as a big data analyst at JP Morgan Chase. Negi moved to the United States after his father got a diplomatic visa as part of a job at the United Nations, but his legal residency doesn't include a work permit.He was able to work while a student but is waiting for his STEM OPT visa to remain employed, and is concerned Trump will gut the program.Negi noted he understands Trump's stated goals of protecting U.S. workers but says he's going about it incorrectly."Any country wants to protect its own citizens, but you don't just end the program when you don't have your own population trained," Negi said.The Trump administration has also signaled it may end another Obama-era program that allowed spouses of H1B visa holders to work legally in the U.S. Many of these people have been in the U.S. for years, sometimes long enough to have children who are now U.S. citizens, yet can face a decades-long wait for a green card. The prospect of being unable to work is a shock to them."I would like to make my own living. I am qualified and skilled," said Anushri Maru, 35, a business analyst in Houston, adding she's baffled her new home doesn't want her talents. "I'm not sure they understand that we are skilled immigrants."Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — President Trump has begun a new push for legislation to crack down on illegal immigration and make it more difficult to obtain refuge in the United States, White House officials said Monday, arguing that lax laws have drawn a flood of migrants to the country’s borders.The proposals include toughening laws to make it more difficult to apply for or be granted asylum in the United States, stripping protections for children arriving illegally without their parents so they can be turned back at the border or quickly removed, and allowing families to be detained for longer periods while they await decisions from immigration authorities about their fates.While the steps have long been advocated by Mr. Trump’s hard-line aides, including Stephen Miller, his senior policy adviser, focusing on them now opens a new front in the president’s push for immigration restrictions.“A whole big wasted procedure must take place,” Mr. Trump added. “Mexico & Canada have tough immigration laws, whereas ours are an Obama joke.”The message capped a second consecutive day of presidential tweeting on immigration policy that was touched off on Sunday morning when Mr. Trump began venting about “dangerous caravans” of migrants he said were headed to the United States.“DACA is dead because the Democrats didn’t care or act, and now everyone wants to get onto the DACA bandwagon,” Mr. Trump said. In fact, the program applies only to immigrants who arrived in the United States before 2007.Later, surrounded by children on the South Lawn of the White House for the annual Easter egg roll festivities, Mr. Trump again put the blame on Democrats, who he said had abandoned the “Dreamers,” as the undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as children and have benefited from DACA are sometimes called.“The Democrats have really let them down, they’ve really let them down,” Mr. Trump said in response to a question shouted by a reporter, as young children crowded around him at a picnic table where he was signing their artwork. “They had this great opportunity, and Democrats have really let them down — it’s a shame.”“Now people are taking advantage of DACA,” Mr. Trump went on. “It should have never happened.”The president was venting about the failure of bipartisan talks to enshrine DACA’s protections in law. The negotiations became necessary after Mr. Trump moved last fall to end the program, which had been created unilaterally by President Barack Obama.Those deliberations have gone nowhere despite Mr. Trump’s stated willingness to provide a path to citizenship for nearly two million undocumented immigrants who could be considered eligible for the program. Democrats offered last month to provide $25 billion for the border wall that Mr. Trump advocates, in exchange for such an extension, but White House officials rejected the deal, demanding additional measures to curb legal and illegal immigration.Democrats said Monday he was deliberately misrepresenting the issue.“Instead of working productively to find a bipartisan solution for Dreamers, the president is attempting to rewrite history with a dangerous, anti-immigrant gaslighting campaign aimed at confusing the American people, slandering the DACA program and disparaging asylum seekers,” said Representative Michelle Lujan Grisham, Democrat of New Mexico and the chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.But Mr. Trump’s advisers said that in referring to people “taking advantage of DACA,” the president was alluding to Central American migrants who have been duped by human smugglers into making a dangerous trek north in the belief they could enter the United States before lawmakers enact permissive new laws.The notion has taken hold, they said, during a season when migration flows from Central America to the United States typically accelerate.In a conference call on Monday afternoon — convened in part to explain the context of Mr. Trump’s tweets — administration and White House officials said they were pushing for changes to so-called catch-and-release policies that essentially mandate that many people who are detained arriving illegally in the United States be released from custody while awaiting a decision on whether they can stay.They called for changing a law that affords broad protections to children illegally entering the United States alone who are not from Canada and Mexico, so that they could be promptly removed as long as it is determined that they are not victims of human trafficking.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Another senior official outlined modifications Mr. Trump wants to see in asylum policies to limit the number of people claiming to be political refugees who can apply for protection in the United States.Among the changes would be making it more difficult for asylum seekers to demonstrate “credible fear” about returning to their home countries before they are given a chance to stay in the United States and adding more reasons — such as membership in a gang or drunken driving accusations — that asylum seekers could be deemed inadmissible.A senior administration official who detailed the asylum changes said they were meant in part to address a backlog of hundreds of thousands of immigration court cases that can delay hearings for years, allowing undocumented immigrants to be released for long periods and to live legally in the United States while they await decisions on their cases.As part of that effort, the Justice Department told immigration judges on Monday that it would impose new quotas on their work, requiring them to complete 700 cases each year in an effort to speed deportation decisions and eliminate the backlog. That is a slight increase from the average of 678 cases a year the judges completed from 2011 to 2016.Monday’s briefing also suggested that Mr. Trump’s yearlong quest to find a politically palatable solution to the DACA conundrum — which he has often presented as a moral dilemma — is viewed by some of his advisers as a risky gambit that would be justified only with the most restrictive of conditions.One senior White House official said that even a debate in Congress over granting a “generous immigration benefit” such as DACA creates a “major pull factor” for new waves of illegal immigrants.In February, the White House and the Department of Homeland Security lashed out against a bipartisan proposal to codify DACA protections, arguing that it would have eviscerated immigration enforcement for people arriving in the United States before June 2018.Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, briefed Mr. Trump on the migration situation last week after returning from a trip to Mexico to meet with President Enrique Peña Nieto and other top Mexican officials, one White House official said, and he was concerned by what he heard.Immigration advocacy groups dismissed Mr. Trump’s latest moves as a play to his core supporters that would ultimately backfire for his party, driving away voters.“When Trump plays to his base with his xenophobia and bigotry, it drives away tolerant suburban voters, threatens America’s perishable crop industry and energizes young people and voters of color,” said Frank Sharry, the executive director of America’s Voice.Katie Benner and Eileen Sullivan contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON —  The Latest on President Donald Trump and immigration (all times local):4:20 p.m.Trump administration officials are working on a new package of legislation aimed at closing what they describe as immigration "loopholes."Among the measures they want Congress to address: ending special safeguards that prevent the immediate deportation of children traveling alone from countries that don't border the U.S.They also want Congress to terminate a 1997 court settlement that requires the government to release children from custody to caretakers while their cases are making their way through immigration court.The proposals appear the same as those included on a White House wish list on immigration that was released in October.It's unclear, however, whether there is any appetite in Congress for such changes, especially now that the president has said he is no longer interested in protecting young "Dreamer" immigrants from deportation.___2:05 p.m.Political groups backed by the conservative Koch brothers are criticizing President Donald Trump for declaring that an effort to protect young immigrants from deportation is dead.Freedom Partners is backed by the wealthy Charles and David Koch. Its executive vice president is James Davis, and he says it would be "irresponsible and represent a grave injustice" not to compromise with Democrats on permanently protecting young "Dreamer" immigrants in exchange for $25 billion for border security.Trump has rejected such a deal.Officials with Americans for Prosperity and The LIBRE Initiative released similar statements. LIBRE Initiative President Daniel Garza says Dreamers "have contributed to our economy and our communities."The Kochs didn't support Trump's 2016 presidential bid. They've previously criticized his immigration stance but have backed many of his other policies.__12:55 p.m.President Donald Trump is attacking his own Justice Department and the FBI on Twitter, accusing them of withholding information and "slow walking" the production of documents to Republicans in Congress.Trump is also appearing to question the integrity of the Justice Department in his Tweet by putting quotation marks around the word "Justice" in referring to the department. He says the conduct of the agencies overseen by his appointees is an "embarrassment to our country."The criticism comes about a week after Trump-appointed FBI Director Christopher Wray assigned 54 FBI staff to work from 8 a.m. to midnight collecting and reviewing documents requested by various congressional investigations.The president could expedite the release of the documents on his own by declassifying the information in full.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.__11:20 a.m.President Donald Trump is praising the state of the nation's economy at the annual White House Easter Egg Roll.Trump spoke briefly to hundreds of guests on the South Lawn, pointing to a "special year" for the country and progress on the economy.The president and first lady Melania Trump, joined by 12-year-old son Barron, then walked over to the station where kids are rolling dyed, hard-boiled eggs across the lawn.Trump addressed reporters briefly, reiterating that Democrats have "really let" down young immigrants seeking a deal on protections from deportation.Trump has been trying to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. Although he says he has been open to a law extending it, he and Congress have been unable to come to terms.__7:45 a.m.President Donald Trump is calling for new border wall and immigration legislation, tweeting that moving to the "nuclear option" in the Senate is only way to muscle such a measure through Congress. But that would require changing Senate rules, something for which Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has shown no enthusiasm.In early morning tweets Monday, Trump says "Congress must immediately pass Border Legislation, use Nuclear Option if necessary, to stop the massive inflow of Drugs and People." He added, "Act now, Congress, our country is being stolen."Trump also tweeted that the U.S. must build a border wall, but argued that "Democrats want No Borders, hence drugs and crime!" He also said that a deal to help "Dreamer" immigrants is "dead because the Democrats didn't care or act."The $1.3 trillion funding package Congress passed last month included $1.6 billion in border wall spending. But much of that money can only be used to repair existing segments, not build new sections. Congress also put restrictions on the types of barriers that can be built.__12:48 a.m.President Donald Trump has declared "NO MORE" to a deal to help "Dreamer" immigrants and threatened to pull out of a free trade agreement with Mexico unless it does more to stop people from crossing into the U.S. He claimed they're coming to take advantage of protections granted certain immigrants."NO MORE DACA DEAL!" Trump tweeted Sunday one hour after he began the day by wishing his followers a "HAPPY EASTER!"He said Mexico must "stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL!" The U.S., Canada and Mexico are participating in tense negotiations over the North American Free Trade Agreement at Trump's insistence. Trump says NAFTA is bad for the U.S.Go to Home Page »Good morning.Don’t write an obituary for the Orange Curtain just yet. For years, it seemed that the demographic change in Orange County might push the suburban enclave to shed its image as a conservative island. And in 2016, voters chose a Democrat candidate for president for the first time since the Great Depression.But now, political leaders there seem poised to reclaim their role as a counterpoint to much of the rest of California. On Tuesday, the county Board of Supervisors took two significant votes: One scrapped a previously approved plan to open temporary shelters for the homeless in the wealthy towns of Huntington Beach, Irvine and Laguna Niguel. In the other, the board voted to join a lawsuit from the Trump administration against California’s so-called sanctuary state law. Both votes from the all-Republican board were unanimous, though one member was not present.“We cannot let the state begin cherry-picking which federal laws it decides to follow,” Supervisor Michelle Steel said in a statement after the meeting. Immigrant rights advocates called the vote “shameful” and said they were “scapegoating our own communities.” Other opponents reminded the jurors that Orange County was a leader in backing Proposition 187, an anti-illegal immigrant measure that was later struck down by the courts.It is unclear how the county will now deal with the hundreds of people it forced out of a homeless encampment along the Santa Ana River earlier this year, but county leaders say they expect local leaders to discuss options at a court hearing on Tuesday.We want to hear from you: Do you think city and county governments have the right to challenge state laws? And do you see the recent battles as signs that California is not as liberal as many perceive it to be?The news and stories that matter to Californians (and anyone else interested in the state). Sign up to get it by email.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.)The lawsuit describes Mr. Roeder as a prankster who poses as the company’s chief executive and argues with employees. In the Burbank branch he picked apart a burger in the middle of the restaurant, claimed it was contaminated, and stepped on it theatrically.The lawsuit says Mr. Roeder caused “significant and irreparable” harm to the chain, which is seeking damages of more than $25,000.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.See More »Go to Home Page »Mr. Judd is the president of the National Border Patrol Council, a frequent guest on Fox News and a reliably vocal supporter of the Trump administration’s hard-line immigration agenda. On Sunday, he was interviewed on “Fox & Friends,” one of the president’s favorite programs.What followed was a public mind meld with the president, one that has frequently occurred since Mr. Trump took office.“Our legislators actually have to stand up, and the Republicans control the House and the Senate; they do not need the Democrat support to pass any laws they want,” Mr. Judd said during the segment. “They can go the nuclear option, just like what they did on the confirmation. They need to pass laws to end the catch-and-release program that’ll allow us to hold them for a long time.”“Border Patrol Agents are not allowed to properly do their job at the Border because of ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws like Catch & Release,” the president wrote. “Getting more dangerous. ‘Caravans’ coming. Republicans must go to Nuclear Option to pass tough laws NOW.”The president and his advisers are seeking to harden immigration laws. In a call with reporters on Monday, senior White House officials said that Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, had attended over 100 meetings on ways to push forward.But in the meantime, Mr. Judd, a 20-year veteran of the Border Patrol and leader of the estimated 18,000-member labor union, has caught Mr. Trump’s eye and earned the president’s praise for his television appearances.Mr. Judd has reiterated the same talking points on Fox News, including urging Republicans to support Mr. Trump’s push for a border wall, ending the so-called catch-and-release practice and lauding the administration’s efforts on securing borders.Mr. Judd, of course, has not been elevated to the White House. But he has been publicly spotted in the president’s midst.In an interview on Monday, Mr. Judd said he and the union came to Mr. Trump’s attention during the 2016 presidential campaign. After seeing Mr. Judd quoted in a news story, Mr. Trump reached out.“Senator Ted Cruz quoted me from either a congressional hearing or a TV interview,” Mr. Judd said, “and immediately after, the Trump campaign reached out and strongly requested our endorsement.”Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The National Border Patrol Council obliged in what was the first time the union had backed a presidential candidate. Mr. Judd said the primary reasons for the endorsement were rooted in Obama administration policies that he and other agents say impaired their ability to secure the border.Of particular disdain was the catch-and-release policy. “We weren’t allowed to or given the resources to do our jobs,” Mr. Judd said. “So we decided to make our voices heard.”In January, Mr. Trump publicly praised Mr. Judd’s continued support.Among his fellow Border Patrol agents, however, opinions of Mr. Judd diverge.Some rank-and-file agents call Mr. Judd a strong advocate for the force, including pushing for more personnel and better technology. Others say that Mr. Judd has, on occasion, taken positions that some agents call bizarre.Last year, Agent Rogelio Martinez was killed while on patrol in Texas and his partner, Agent Stephen Garland, was seriously injured. Mr. Judd and other National Border Patrol Council officials have repeatedly said the two agents were the victims of a savage attack by smugglers or undocumented immigrants.No evidence of smugglers was ever found in the area, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation said it was possible that the men were hurt accidentally. Oscar Carrillo, the local sheriff, helped investigate the case and concluded that the two men could have been hit by a vehicle.Mr. Judd credits Mr. Trump for improving morale at the Border Patrol, which he said had been demoralized by the Obama administration. Mr. Judd has also used his relationship with the president to push for hiring the additional Border Patrol agents and for the reversal of several Obama-era policies. (The agents have not yet been hired.)And Mr. Judd said he voiced his concerns to the Trump transition team about Mark Morgan, a former F.B.I. agent who was appointed chief of the Border Patrol late in the Obama administration. Mr. Trump ousted Mr. Morgan just days after assuming the presidency.Mr. Judd is a Border Patrol agent stationed in Montana, where he has also forged ties with Senator Jon Tester, a Democrat. He was Mr. Tester’s guest to Mr. Trump’s State of the Union address in January.Still, Mr. Judd said, he never agreed with the statement and the union recently completed a survey of its members who “overwhelmingly say a wall system is necessary to securing the border.”See More »Go to Home Page »PALM BEACH, Fla. — President Trump, blaming Democrats and the Mexican government for an increasingly “dangerous” flow of illegal immigrants, unleashed a series of fiery tweets on Sunday in which he vowed “NO MORE DACA DEAL” and threatened to walk away from the North American Free Trade Agreement.Minutes after wishing the nation a happy Easter Sunday, Mr. Trump denounced “liberal” laws that he said were preventing Border Patrol agents from doing their jobs. He said that Republicans should use the “nuclear option” to sidestep Democratic opposition in the Senate and enact “tough laws NOW.”It was unclear whether the president’s tweets represented any change in his immigration policy, or were just the sort of venting he is known to do after reading a newspaper article or seeing a television program. The president, who spent much of his holiday weekend golfing with supporters and watching television, was apparently reacting to a “Fox and Friends” segment on immigration that had aired minutes before.Whatever his intention, Mr. Trump’s Twitter outburst captured the fickle tendencies that have driven his policy positions on immigration. On one hand, he has suggested at times that he is open to extending citizenship to millions of undocumented people. On the other hand, he has denounced those who have entered the country illegally as brutal criminals and raged about lax enforcement that he said had allowed immigrants to pour into the country.As he walked into church in Palm Beach on Sunday morning, Mr. Trump did not respond to a question from reporters about whether his tweets meant that he would no longer support any deal for the young immigrants protected by the DACA program. But he said that “Mexico has got to help us at the border, and a lot of people are coming in because they want to take advantage of DACA.”The Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA, gave protected status to hundreds of thousands of young immigrants brought to the country illegally as children. The program requires immigrants to have resided in the United States since 2007, meaning any crossing the border now would not be eligible.Mr. Trump announced last year that he was ending the program, but courts have blocked his decision. He has said he is open to negotiating with Democrats on it, but has repeatedly backed away from potential deals that he argues do not include immigration changes that are tough enough.Outside the church on Sunday, the president said the Democrats “blew it” after having “had a great chance.”“But we’ll have to take a look,” he added.Several Democrats challenged the idea that they were at fault for a breakdown in negotiations.Mr. Evans said the president’s comments were “simply unacceptable.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“NEED WALL!” he added.The president’s tweets seemed at odds with some unifying steps taken last week by members of his administration: The homeland security secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, met with President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico to discuss ways to work together on security and trade issues, according to a description of the conversation released by the Department of Homeland Security.But Mr. Trump may have been hearing a harder-line administration voice over the weekend. He was accompanied to his Palm Beach resort, Mar-a-Lago, by Stephen Miller, a senior policy adviser who has shaped much of the administration’s tough stance on immigration.The president, in his tweets, criticized what he called “Catch & Release,” a practice in which detained undocumented immigrants are sometimes released as they wait for a hearing before an immigration judge. In some cases, they are released because the government has nowhere to house them.Critics say the practice — which, contrary to the president’s tweet, is not enshrined in law — gives the immigrants an opening to skip their hearing and settle undetected in the country. The Trump administration has declared an end to the practice, though it may take a while before significant changes are carried out.Mr. Trump’s tweets on Sunday echoed remarks on “Fox and Friends” by Brandon Judd, the president of the National Border Patrol Council, whom the president has praised in the past.“Our legislators actually have to stand up, and the Republicans control the House and the Senate, they do not need the Democrat support to pass any laws they want,” Mr. Judd said on the program. “They can go the nuclear option, just like what they did on the confirmation. They need to pass laws to end the catch-and-release program that’ll allow us to hold them for a long time.”Mr. Judd also said that the “catch and release” policy was helping to lure the caravan of Central Americans to the United States.A representative for a group called Pueblo Sin Fronteras, which organized the caravan, said that it would take four to six weeks before it reached the United States-Mexico border, and that the number of participants would be significantly smaller by then.Most people are likely to drop out of the caravan in Mexico, rather than journey all the way to the border, the representative said, because they know they would be turned back by American border officials.“Many of them know they won’t qualify for asylum. They are afraid of being detained,” said Roberto Corona, the group’s communications director, adding that most of them just wanted to reach Mexico, where they plan to speak with members of that country’s Congress.Migrants who cannot prove that they face persecution or that their lives are endangered in their home country are unlikely to be allowed to remain in the United States. The Trump administration has also sought to increase detentions to deter would-be migrants.Ron Nixon and Julie Hirschfeld Davis contributed reporting from Washington, and Miriam Jordan from Los Angeles.See More »Go to Home Page »SAN DIEGO —  The Trump administration said Thursday that it ended special considerations to generally release pregnant women charged with being in the United States illegally while their cases wind through immigration court.U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement said it scrapped a policy that took effect in August 2016 that pregnant women should be released unless they met limited criteria that required them to be held by law, such as serious criminal histories, or if there were "extraordinary circumstances."The new policy, which took effect in December but wasn't announced until Thursday, gives no blanket special consideration to pregnancy, though the agency says each case will be reviewed individually and women in their third trimester will generally be released.The move is the latest effort to scrap immigration policies created in the final two years of Barack Obama's administration. Shortly after Trump took office, rules that generally limited deportations to convicted criminals, public safety threats and recent border crossers were lifted, making anyone in the country illegally vulnerable. Deportation arrests have spiked more than 40 percent under Trump's watch.Administration officials said new rules on pregnant women aligned with the president's executive orders last year for heightened immigration enforcement."All across our enforcement portfolio, we're no longer exempting any individual from being subject to the law," said Philip Miller, deputy executive associate director of ICE's enforcement and removal operations.Women and immigrant advocacy groups, many who have criticized medical care at immigrant detention centers, swiftly condemned the change.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.While authorities made clear that it would review cases individually and that officers may consider pregnancy, the new policy shifts the focus more toward detention."It's basically a different starting point," said Michelle Brané, the Women's Refugee Commission's director of migrant rights and justice program and a frequent critic of immigration detention. "They're shifting the presumption. There used to be a presumption that detention was not a good place for pregnant women.""This new policy further exposes the cruelty of Trump's detention and deportation force by endangering the lives of pregnant immigrant women," said Victoria Lopez, senior staff counsel for the American Civil Liberties Union.U.S. officials said it was unclear how many women would be affected by the new policy. Immigration and Customs Enforcement took 506 pregnant women into custody since the new policy took effect in December and had 35 last week.Immigration authorities are required by law to hold certain people regardless of pregnancy, including people convicted of crimes listed in the Immigration and Naturalization Act or placed in fast-track removal proceedings when they are arrested crossing the border.Officials say it's unclear how many women who would have been released under the old policy will now be held.Go to Home Page »(Reuters) - Thirty-four people said to be illegal immigrants were in custody on Wednesday after federal agents raided a "drop house" in Phoenix suspected of being a part of a human smuggling operation, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials said.The raid late on Tuesday was precipitated by a tip that a "local residence contained a large group of suspected undocumented aliens," Lauren Mack, a spokeswoman for ICE, said in a statement.The information led agents with ICE Homeland Security Investigations to "dismantle a human smuggling drop house," she said."Federal agents discovered 34 undocumented aliens inside the residence. The group included  27 Guatemalan nationals, 5 Mexican nationals and 2 Honduran nationals," Mack said.All 34 were detained for violations associated with the failed human smuggling operation and processed for removal. "The investigation into the smuggling activity is ongoing," Mack said.U.S. President Donald Trump has ordered stricter immigration enforcement.(Reporting by Gina Cherelus in New York; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe and Leslie Adler)Go to Home Page »LONDON —  Britain's plans to pass new immigration laws to control migration after it leaves the European Union have been pushed back, interior minister Amber Rudd said on Wednesday."The timing for the immigration bill has been delayed because the key element of protecting EU citizens in their rights in the UK has now been achieved through the withdrawal agreement which is going to come before parliament later this year," Rudd told a parliamentary committee."So the urgency that we had before with the white paper, with the immigration bill, has to a certain extent been removed."(Reporting by William James; editing by Alistair Smout)Go to Home Page »The bulk of Ahmed’s research comes from a listening tour he embarked on with a team of researchers between 2013 and 2017. They interviewed imams, community leaders, activists and ordinary people across the continent about the challenges European Muslims face today. Their findings are predictably grim. Across the board, interviewees reported feeling marginalized, stereotyped and prevented from professional advancement because of their background. Despite their multitude of experiences, they ended up lumped into the crude categories that conflate terrorists, Muslims and refugees; Arabs, Persians and Africans; recent immigrants with no facility in the local language and second-generation doctoral students fluent at the highest level. “We are in a cosmic depression,” a British psychologist laments.Many patterns of discrimination, Ahmed notes, are rooted in colonial legacies that vary by country; in his assessment, Pakistanis in Britain are better integrated than, say, French citizens of Algerian and Moroccan descent. But even absent empire, many of the Muslims he speaks to find it hard, if not impossible, to fit in. “In Denmark they strangle you slowly, slowly,” one interviewee proclaims.Ahmed also documents how Muslim communities end up reinforcing negative stereotypes. Refugees bring with them sectarian and ethnic rivalries that make little sense in Europe. Ahmed’s own team of researchers was chased away from a mosque in Bradford, England, by a group of aggressive teenagers. What happened there “captures the current predicament of contemporary European Muslim society: angry and noisy young Muslims, unresolved issues concerning immigration, frequent violence and terrorism, often inspired by ISIS, the rise of the far right and its dangerous rhetoric of religious hatred and rampant Islamophobia.”Ahmed spends little time analyzing the role of economics in promulgating these xenophobic sentiments. Nor does he compare Muslims’ fates with the predicament of other migrants — Polish workers in England were, after all, a major target of Brexiteers — or the situation of Christians in the Middle East. His study is more ethnographic than political. We learn from the experiences of living, breathing people. Ahmed also reminds us of the considerable philosophical, scientific and cultural gifts that Muslims gave Europe throughout the ages.Ahmed frames tribal identity — whether Norwegian or Bedouin — as a political conundrum: “how to remain strong in your own identity without transgressing onto that of others.” Too much can lead to predatory chauvinism; too little can bring about a loss of self, a “dangerous vacuum where … identity should have been.” This point is fundamental to his analysis. Rather than diagnosing tensions between Muslims and white Europeans as an innate clash of cultures, Ahmed blames a loosening of identities — religious, national, tribal and cultural — on all sides that’s further exacerbated by globalization.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.At the same time, Ahmed makes efforts not to succumb to what he calls “Andalusian syndrome,” or “a nostalgia felt too deep for words about a beloved civilization in the past that haunts the imagination” (afflicted parties include everyone from Prince Turki of Saudi Arabia to the Marxist theorist Tariq Ali). This period was hardly utopian, and Ahmed characterizes popular accounts of it — in the works of Salman Rushdie, notably — as excessively rosy. Ahmed also concedes that the old version of Andalusia is “dated, impractical and has little legitimacy” today. But his yearning for a better way, and his conviction that a “New Andalusia” can exist, carries the reader through some 500 pages.The fundamental message of “Journey Into Europe” is that throughout history, Islamic and European civilizations have often been not just compatible, but complementary. It’s crucial to acknowledge their shared past to reject today’s resurgent tribalism. The stakes, as Ahmed puts it, are “Andalusia or dystopia.”Atossa Araxia Abrahamian is a journalist and the author of “The Cosmopolites: The Coming of the Global Citizen.”See More »We earn an affiliate commission with each book purchase, which helps support our journalism at The New York Times.Go to Home Page »Repairs on the Staten Island Expressway. Vegetables for nutritional programs in the Bronx. Programs for seniors in Manhattan and Queens. New schools in Brooklyn. The $7 billion from the federal government that funds all these aspects of New York life could be affected by one question on the 2020 census: Are you a United States citizen?That question is provoking fear among the city’s elected officials, who worry that because of its inclusion on the census questionnaire, some immigrants may decline to participate.Census information is not supposed to be shared with other parts of the government, but the Trump administration has said that all undocumented immigrants are subject to deportation, leading many to say they do not trust what the government will do with their information.Immigrants or children of immigrants make up nearly 60 percent of the city’s population, and the ripple effect could be powerful. Officials are concerned that could lead to an inaccurate population count in New York.“People have identified this as an immigrant problem, and that’s really not accurate,” said Joseph J. Salvo, the chief demographer for the Department of City Planning.The city’s education department comes to him for the data it uses to redraw school zones, he said, as does the health department when it needs to understand illness rates. Businesses use federal information to determine whether to open in underserved neighborhoods.“Those immigrants are side by side with children who are citizens, with an uncle who is a legal permanent resident, with the cousin who is undocumented. All of those people are afraid,” Mr. Salvo said.On Wednesday, the New York Immigration Coalition, an activist group, announced its New York Counts 2020 campaign alongside congressional and local elected officials. The effort has three prongs: to fight the question; to pressure the United States Census Bureau to protect the information of all New Yorkers; and to reassure residents that they can safely respond.At the news conference, Nydia Velázquez, a Democrat representing Queens, Brooklyn and Lower Manhattan, said she is co-sponsoring legislation in the House of Representatives that will require the Commerce Department to provide advance notice to Congress before changing questions on the census. Representative Grace Meng, a Democrat from Queens who sits on the committee that funds the census bureau, said she and her colleagues are considering withholding funds for 2019 unless the question is removed.In a public hearing last week before the question was added, Ms. Meng confronted the Secretary of Commerce, Wilbur Ross, whose department oversees the U.S. Census Bureau. “I told him directly that this is about accuracy; this is mandated by the Constitution to count every living person.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In the last census count, in 2010, the city’s response rate was 62 percent, but some heavily immigrant communities, like Washington Heights and the South Bronx, exceeded that, with more than 70 percent of residents answering the census questionnaires.Adriano Espaillat, a Democrat who in 2010 was representing Washington Heights and Harlem in the State Assembly, said that was in part because of a robust effort by volunteers to convince residents their participation counted. Mr. Espaillat, who is now in Congress, said he could not yet encourage undocumented residents to take part.“I want to fight this question back, first,” he said. “If not in Congress, then in the courts. If at the end of this the question remains, then we’re going to have to come together to decide the messaging.”“The census data is like the electrical system,” Professor Reamer said. “It reaches everywhere in ways that are not readily seen.”For New York, inaccurate numbers could have effects as small as a serving at lunch. “The Asian-American community is the fastest growing senior population in the city,” said Howard Shih, the director of research and policy for the Asian-American Federation in New York. Census figures, he said, could determine something as mundane, but essential, as how much food a senior center would need to order to accommodate this population.The data compiled once a decade serves as the basis of comparison for smaller, sample surveys compiled annually.“Anything that affects the propensity of people to answer the census is of concern to us,” said Mr. Salvo, the demographer. “The Census Bureau’s first priority should always be maximum response. Anything they do to compromise that, frankly, works against their main mission.”“The Census Bureau,” he said, “creates reality.”Go to Home Page »Most of the 1,200 migrants moving through Mexico toward the United States are from Honduras, a country plagued by violence and recent political turmoil.MEXICO CITY — It has become a regular occurrence, particularly around the Easter holiday: scores or even hundreds of Central American migrants making their way north by foot and vehicle from southern Mexico. They include everyone from infants to the elderly, fleeing violence and poverty in their homelands.They travel in large groups — the current is one of the largest at about 1,200 participants — in part for protection against the kidnappers, muggers and rapists that stalk the migrant trail, but also to draw more attention to their plight. Some have the United States in mind, but many are only thinking as far as a new home in Mexico.Called “caravans,” most of the journeys, which date back at least five years, have moved forward with little fanfare, virtually unnoticed north of the border with the United States. But tweets by President Trump have suddenly turned the latest caravan into a major international incident and the most recent flash point in the politics of immigration in the United States.“Getting more dangerous,” the president tweeted on Sunday. “‘Caravans’ coming.”Border Patrol Agents are not allowed to properly do their job at the Border because of ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws like Catch & Release. Getting more dangerous. “Caravans” coming. Republicans must go to Nuclear Option to pass tough laws NOW. NO MORE DACA DEAL!On Monday, he warned that “our country is being stolen” by illegal immigration, blaming Democrats for weak border policies and urging Mexico to strengthen its border enforcement.“Mexico has the absolute power not to let these large ‘Caravans’ of people enter their country,” he said in a tweet.Mexico has the absolute power not to let these large “Caravans” of people enter their country. They must stop them at their Northern Border, which they can do because their border laws work, not allow them to pass through into our country, which has no effective border laws.....In interviews on Monday, the caravan’s organizers sounded frustrated, exhausted and dismayed.“We are not terrorists,” said Irineo Mujica, Mexico director of Pueblo Sin Fronteras — People Without Borders — a transnational advocacy group that is coordinating the current caravan and has organized others in recent years. He was speaking by phone from Matías Romero, a town in the state of Oaxaca in southwest Mexico where members of the caravan had spent the previous two nights, sleeping in a park.“We are not anarchists,” Mr. Mujica continued. “We try to help people to know their rights, things that we as human beings should be doing, try to advocate for human, sensible solutions.”Late Monday, Mexican immigration officials began negotiations with caravan organizers about how to deal with the migrants.Alex Mensing, project coordinator for Pueblo Sin Fronteras, said that the Mexican authorities had agreed to provide eligible migrants with humanitarian visas permitting them to remain in the country legally. Others would be provided with temporary transit passes, which usually last 20 days, allowing them to visit an immigration office and begin the process to legalize their status or travel to the United States border to apply for asylum or some other form of protection, Mr. Mensing said.Mexico’s Foreign Ministry and Interior Ministry, in a statement issued jointly late Monday, said the authorities had already deported 400 participants in the caravan since the event began more than a week ago, but confirmed that they were offering protections to the migrants “in cases where this is appropriate.”“Under no circumstances does the Mexican government promote irregular migration,” the statement said.Mr. Mensing said that processing details were still being worked out between government officials and the caravan organizers, but warned that should the process take too long, “it’s very possible that the caravan will reignite.”The migrant group left the southern Mexican border town of Tapachula on March 25, at that point numbering about 700. Most of the participants were from Honduras and many of them said they were fleeing violence and poverty in their home countries, organizers said. Some say they were inspired to flee Honduras following the violent suppression of political protests that erupted after last year’s presidential election.Over the past week, the group grew in size, to about 1,200 by the time it arrived in Matías Romero.But organizers said that contrary to the vision of a migrant onslaught on America conjured by Mr. Trump, most participants do not intend to travel as far as the border of the United States.“He’s trying to paint this as if we are trying to go to the border, and we’re going to storm the border,” Mr. Mujica said.Mr. Mensing added: “We’re definitely not looking for some kind of showdown.”In an interview Monday, before negotiations between the Mexican immigration authorities and the caravan organizers began, Mr. Mujica predicted that at most 10 percent to 15 percent of the participants would seek asylum at the American border.He said he expected many others to drop out along the way, especially if the caravan continued along its intended route through the state of Puebla and on to Mexico City, with some participants applying for asylum or other forms of protection in Mexico.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In Puebla, Pueblo Sin Fronteras plans to hold workshops, led by volunteer lawyers, to teach migrants about options for legal protections in the region, including in Mexico and the United States.“We don’t promote going to the United States,” Mr. Mensing said. “It’s a challenging place to seek asylum.”“We are trying — as Mexicans, as Americans — to find solutions,” said Mr. Mujica, a Mexican-American who holds dual citizenship.In his Twitter posts on Sunday, Mr. Trump also asserted that many migrants trying to cross the border into the United States were seeking to “take advantage of” the program known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, that has provided protected status to hundreds of thousands of young immigrants brought to the country as children. Mr. Trump announced last year that he was ending the program but was open to keeping it.But migrant-rights advocates, including coordinators of the latest caravan traversing Mexico, said these assertions were a White House invention.“It’s laughable!” Mr. Mujica said. “Most of the people don’t even know what DACA is. They know that it’s almost impossible to get into the United States. They know that they’re deporting everyone.”On Sunday, even Mexico’s secretary of foreign affairs, Luis Videgaray, weighed in, apparently in response Mr. Trump’s tweets that accused Mexico of lax immigration enforcement.“Every day Mexico and the U.S. work together on migration throughout the region,” he said on Twitter. “Facts clearly reflect this. An inaccurate news report should not serve to question this strong cooperation. Upholding human dignity and rights is not at odds with the rule of law. Happy Easter.”See More »Go to Home Page »At the end of a recent Sunday service, the congregants at the Fourth Universalist Society on Central Park West placed their hands on the shoulders of a woman who stood in the center of the church. Then other members reached forward to touch those people’s shoulders, until the entire congregation was linked by touch like a radiating star.It was a symbol of their commitment to put the woman, Aura Hernandez, 37, an undocumented Guatemalan immigrant, at the center of their church’s life for what may be months or even years to come. Two weeks ago, Ms. Hernandez moved into a worn former office at the historic Upper West Side church with her 15-month-old daughter, Camila, to avoid deportation to Guatemala. In doing so, she joins about 40 other immigrants around the nation who are being publicly shielded by houses of worship. She vows to remain there, without going outside, until her immigration status changes.“I don’t intend to stand here with my arms crossed, and do nothing,” Ms. Hernandez said in Spanish at the church on Tuesday, about her goal in seeking sanctuary. “I have to stand up and raise my voice because an injustice is being committed to me and to us. I think I’m here for a reason.”With help from other houses of worship and volunteers, this 130-member congregation will feed Ms. Hernandez, do the family’s laundry, and help care for Camila, who is a U.S. citizen and can go outside. They will buy new carpet and paint for her room, and welcome Ms. Hernandez’s 10-year-old son, Daniel, to live there on weekends and when the school year ends. Daniel, also born in the United States, is living in Westchester County with Ms. Hernandez’s husband, who also is undocumented.It is a difficult situation, but the members of the Fourth Universalist, who met Ms. Hernandez at the March 18 service, said they were excited about being asked for help. Their Unitarian Universalist denomination calls for the use of social action to advance progressive principles, they explained. So for them, this is a unique opportunity.“We call this room where we worship a sanctuary, and it has a brand new meaning right now,” the Rev. Schuyler Vogel said at the service. “It has these stone walls, and they aren’t just representational anymore. They protect actual people, keeping someone safe, to ensure that hate is kept out and love is held in.”Churches can effectively shield immigrants from deportation because houses of worship are considered sensitive sites where enforcement is avoided by the Immigration of Customs and Enforcement, commonly referred to as ICE. But ICE reserves the right to go into sensitive sites “in limited circumstances,” according to its official policy.As the weeks fold into months, living in a church takes a toll, both on the person and the church that is housing them. Stuck almost completely inside for nearly eight months, Ms. Morales said Wednesday she was experiencing panic attacks. “I had a dream this week that I was being strangled,” she said in Spanish. “I was screaming and no one could hear me.”Ms. Hernandez makes tortillas in the church kitchen for Camila and cooks beans. There is a steady stream of visitors from immigrant organizations and the congregation. But at night, when the Gothic 19th-century building is quiet and dark, even going down the stairs to the bathroom can be terrifying, she said.She cried when she talked about the happy life she had been leading, a difficult life of cleaning houses, but also the Sunday celebrations at the park, and her pride in her son’s progress at school. In Guatemala, an abusive former partner has vowed to kill her, she said, and she has lost family members to violence.These days, her son is a puddle of tears after his weekly visit. “I have to recover it,” she said of her American life. “I owe it to my children.”While many undocumented immigrants are receiving legal help and other assistance, seeking church sanctuary remains a rarity, because of the toll it takes on families. The idea behind the strategy is to give immigrants time to file legal appeals, while placing public pressure on ICE to grant reprieves, said Noel Andersen, of the Church World Service, an ecumenical human rights and refugee resettlement organization.The strategy can work. Of the 39 immigrants who sought public sanctuary nationally in 2017, nine were granted reprieves from deportation, according to a database kept by the organization. Of the 12 who have sought sanctuary in 2018, six have gotten reprieves.Not counted in those numbers are people who seek sanctuary in houses of worship without going public. In New York, about a dozen immigrants are hiding that way, according to Juan Carlos Ruiz of the New Sanctuary Coalition, which organizes sanctuary.Each immigrant’s case is unique, though a fear of violence if deported is a common theme, as is a desire to keep families together.Ms. Hernandez was 24 in 2005 when she crossed the border into Texas with a 9-year-old nephew. She was picked up by the Border Patrol within minutes of entering a town. During the three days of detention that followed, she alleges she was sexually abused by a border patrol officer. At the end of the third day, she said, another officer released her and her nephew and brought them to a bus stop, handing her some papers. “Welcome to the United States,” she said the officer told her.Traumatized, she said she never read the paperwork, which was in English. When she arrived at her sister’s apartment in New York, she put it into a drawer. With time, and talking to a psychologist, she said she began to recover, getting a job and meeting her husband, who was from Mexico.Then in 2013, she was caught in Mamaroneck, N.Y., driving the wrong way down a street that is one-way on Sundays. The police officer, seeing she had no documents, reported her to immigration officials. It was then she learned she had an active deportation order for failing to appear at a 2005 court date in Texas, she said.A lawyer helped her file for a special visa available to crime victims after she told him about the sexual assault. But she said the appeal was ultimately denied, with immigration officials saying too many years had passed.The New Sanctuary Coalition is seeking to reopen her case because of the assault allegation and the violence she says she would face in Guatemala. ICE officials did not respond to requests for comment.On Thursday, the New Sanctuary Coalition will announce Ms. Hernandez’s presence in sanctuary at an event that will include a march around Trump International Hotel and Tower that will end at the church.Ms. Hernandez said she hopes she will only have to be in the church for a few months, but she knows it may be longer. She does not see another way.“They abused me physically, psychologically, and now they want to separate me from my kids,” she said in her makeshift quarters, sounding alternately despondent and defiant. “And that I will not stand for.”Isvett Verde and Claudia Irizarry-Aponte contributed reporting.See More »Go to Home Page »Follow Us:Get the Upshot in your InboxThe Trump administration’s first year of immigration policy has relied on claims that immigrants bring crime into America. President Trump’s latest target is sanctuary cities.“Every day, sanctuary cities release illegal immigrants, drug dealers, traffickers, gang members back into our communities,” he said last week. “They’re safe havens for just some terrible people.”Immigrant populations in the United States have been growing fast for decades now. Crime in the same period, however, has moved in the opposite direction, with the national rate of violent crime today well below what it was in 1980.According to data from the study, a large majority of the areas have many more immigrants today than they did in 1980 and fewer violent crimes. The Marshall Project extended the study’s data up to 2016, showing that crime fell more often than it rose even as immigrant populations grew almost across the board.In 136 metro areas, almost 70 percent of those studied, the immigrant population increased between 1980 and 2016 while crime stayed stable or fell. The number of areas where crime and immigration both increased was much lower — 54 areas, slightly more than a quarter of the total. The 10 places with the largest increases in immigrants all had lower levels of crime in 2016 than in 1980.There’s a similar pattern in two other places where Mr. Trump has recently feuded with local leaders: Oakland, Calif., and Lawrence, Mass. He described both cities as breeding grounds for drugs and crime brought by immigrants. But Oakland, like Orange County, has had increasing immigration and falling crime. In Lawrence, though murder and robbery rates grew, overall violent crime rates still fell by 10 percent.In general, the study’s data suggests either that immigration has the effect of reducing average crime, or that there is simply no relationship between the two, and that the 54 areas in the study where both grew were instances of coincidence, not cause and effect. This was a consistent pattern in each decade from 1980 to 2016, with immigrant populations and crime failing to grow together.In a majority of areas, the number of immigrants increased at least 57 percent and as much as 183 percent, with the greatest increases occurring in the 1990s and early 2000s. Violent crime rates in most areas ranged between a 43 percent decline and a 6 percent rise, often trending downward by the 2000s. Places with a sharp rise in the immigrant population experienced increases in crime rates no more frequently than those with modest or no growth in immigration. On average, the immigrant population grew by 137 percent between 1980 and 2016, with average crime falling 12 percent over the same period.Because the F.B.I. changed how rape was defined in its crime figures, that category could not be included in this analysis. Focusing on the other components of the violent crime rate — assaults, robberies and murders — still fails to reveal a relationship with immigration rates.AssaultsRobberiesMurdersMost areas experienced decreases in all types of violent crime. The change in assault rates ranged from a 34 percent decline to a 29 percent rise, while robbery rates declined in the range of 12 percent to 57 percent, and murder rates declined in the range of 15 percent to 54 percent.This analysis is one of the most comprehensive longitudinal studies of the local immigrant-crime relationship. It spans decades of metropolitan area data, incorporating places with widely differing social, cultural and economic backgrounds, and a broad range of types of violent crime.Areas were chosen to reflect a range of immigrant composition, from Wheeling, W.Va., where one in 100 people was born outside the United States, to Miami, where every second person was. Some areas were home to newly formed immigrant communities; other immigrant pockets went back generations. Controlling for population characteristics, unemployment rates and other socioeconomic conditions, the researchers still found that, on average, as immigration increases in American metropolises, crime decreases.The foreign-born data, which is collected through the census, most likely undercounts the numbers of undocumented immigrants, many of whom might wish to avoid the risk of identifying themselves. They are, however, at least partly represented in the overall foreign-born population counts.Some metropolitan areas changed over time, growing to include additional regions, or splitting into separate ones. The Marshall Project consulted with the study researchers to determine when a larger area was still an appropriate match to the original described in the study. When an area split into components, raw data from each was added to calculate rates approximating the original region. When no reasonable approximation to the original area could be found, it was marked as missing for 2016.When an area was missing information for a certain year, that year's data was interpolated using figures from the closest year available. For example, crime numbers were unavailable for Chicago for 2000 and 2010. Data for those years was linearly interpolated using the 1990 and 2016 figures. Charlotte, N.C., was not included in either the 2016 or 2015 U.C.R. metropolitan area data sets, so data from 2010, the most recent year with available data for this area, was used as an estimate.BUDAPEST — Billboards. TV campaigns. Radio programs. The anti-immigrant government of Prime Minister Viktor Orban uses different levers to influence public opinion, particularly on the subject of the European refugee crisis.Even school textbooks.On Page 155 of the latest eighth-grade history textbook, students are told that Mr. Orban thinks refugees are a threat to Hungary — and then encouraged to believe he is right. “It can be problematic,” the book concludes, “for different cultures to coexist.”It is a testament to the scope of Mr. Orban’s program for remaking Hungary that part of the far-right leader’s message is now woven into the school curriculum.“The government’s goal,” said Laszlo Miklosi, president of the Association of Hungarian History Teachers, “is to create a version of history preferable to Orban.”In Budapest, government officials describe their societal revamp as a mainly technocratic reform effort, rather than an ideological campaign, one validated by Mr. Orban’s success at the ballot box.But Mr. Orban has recognized the political power to be gained by harnessing culture, history and civil society. He usually spends Thursdays reading books, essays and polling data, while meeting with writers and thinkers, two of his longtime associates said. The goal is not pleasure but power, said Zoltan Illes, a former Fidesz minister.“He wants to see what the new developments are and adapt them to his politics, to increase the life span of his governance,” Mr. Illes said.The two men spent more than two hours talking alone in Mr. Orban’s office, surrounded by paintings of Hungarian history. Mr. Orban seemed uninterested in the Stanford experiment, Mr. Zimbardo said, but was keen to understand his theory about how to energize frustrated young men who feel left behind by modern society.“I was giving him ideas,” said Professor Zimbardo, who disagrees with Mr. Orban’s politics, “about how psychology plays a central role in our lives.”This month, tens of thousands of people marched in Budapest to cheer a speech by the prime minister in a political rally to help Fidesz win re-election.Except the organizer was not Fidesz but a civilian named Laszlo Csizmadia — whose work embodies how Mr. Orban has tried to influence the civil arena through like-minded culture warriors.“Obviously, civil society needs to help and support the government to follow through with its promises,” Mr. Csizmadia said in an interview this month. “This is an incredibly important thing.”While channeling money toward its supporters, the government has simultaneously squeezed alternative sources of funding for NGOs that oppose its ideas. With few funding opportunities now available inside Hungary, human rights groups have become increasingly reliant on foreign money — in particular from the Norwegian government and the Open Society Foundation, a charity run by Mr. Soros.During the 1980s, Mr. Orban was a young liberal activist who studied civil society at Oxford University (financed by a Soros grant). But by 2014, when he won a third term as prime minister, he had decisively pivoted. In a meeting that April with Zoltan Illes, then the minister for environmental protection, he lambasted nongovernmental groups as foreign-funded enemies of the state.“I would like,” Mr. Illes recalled Mr. Orban telling him, “to destroy all NGOs in this country.”“It matters what people see on the stage,” said Robert Alfoldi, the former director of Hungary’s National Theater, “and that’s why it’s important for the government.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.During the past eight years, Fidesz has appointed scores of theater directors across the country. Most are not political ideologues, but the new directors do little to prompt reflection about contemporary issues, said Andrea Tompa, the former head of the Hungarian Theatre Critics’ Association.“Most theaters,” she said, “have a socially unengaged message,” and a majority are overseen by directors appointed under Fidesz.Perhaps the most provocative appointment has been of Gyorgy Dorner, a far-right director who now runs a theater in Budapest. In his 2011 application for the job, Mr. Dorner vowed that the theater, the Uj Szinhaz, would become “a repository for Hungarian values” and attract an audience of “Hungarian people who share the idea of the nation state.” Hungary, he said, had been “suffering under the social-liberal yoke.”The Uj Szinhaz now performs only Hungarian plays, and holds an annual festival devoted to Christian theater. “It’s important for us to emphasize our identity because we could lose it in a few moments,” Mr. Dorner said in an interview, citing anxiety about immigration by “the Africans, the Middle Easterners.”Another director, Mr. Alfoldi, has gotten a much cooler reception from the government. Mr. Alfoldi was appointed as director of Hungary’s National Theater while Mr. Orban was out of office, and was vilified in conservative circles for his provocative productions, some of which encouraged a debate about Hungarian national narratives.At one point, he was summoned for questioning in Parliament. Then, when he applied to renew his contract in 2013, his application was rejected.The government has also turned its attention to other branches of the arts. In 2011, a small independent group of right-wing artists — led by Gyorgy Fekete, the husband of Mr. Orban’s former spokeswoman — was turned overnight into a state institution.Under Mr. Fekete, who retired late last year, the academy ignored and even condemned critics of Mr. Orban such as Gyorgy Konrad, a renowned author. Instead, it awarded monthly stipends in perpetuity to artists like Gyozo Somogyi, best known for depicting Hungarian military heroes, and Pal Ko, who has made a career from sculpting Hungarian historical figures.When the University of Debrecen awarded an honorary doctorate last August to Vladimir V. Putin, the Russian president and an ally of Mr. Orban, four academic departments protested the decision. It was an act of free expression central to the principles of the European Union.Yet in response, the university leadership conducted an investigation into their dissent.Though Mr. Orban did not personally order the investigation, many academics saw it as a sign of how much influence the government and its appointees have exerted over university decision-making since he was elected. Under Fidesz, the finances of each university department have been placed under the control of a government-appointed chancellor.Officially, the loss of each department’s financial autonomy has been presented as a cost-saving measure. But for professors like Zoltan Fleck, who heads a law department at Hungary’s oldest college, Eotvos Lorand University, the real aim was to curb the academic autonomy of each department.No one tells Dr. Fleck what to think. But the only research funding available to his department is allocated directly by the Ministry of Justice. For a time, that money was restricted to research on family law.To exert greater influence over churches and synagogues themselves, Fidesz has stripped hundreds of religious institutions of their legal status, and scrapped their state funding.This month, its leader, Sandor Nemeth, told his congregants to vote for Mr. Orban.Jason Horowitz contributed reporting from Rome, and Palko Karasz from London.Go to Home Page »Supported byDonald Trump has a boatload of problems. Ann Coulter, the author of a 2016 book titled “In Trump We Trust,” is now one of them.A week ago, when he signed a $1.3 trillion spending bill with nothing for his promised border wall, her frustrations with him, expressed frequently in her syndicated columns, turned into fury. “Congratulations, President Schumer!” she tweeted to more than 1.9 million followers. She also fantasized on Twitter about his impeachment.During an appearance at Columbia University on Tuesday night, she referred to him as a “shallow, lazy ignoramus.” And during a long conversation with me at The Times on Thursday afternoon, she sent him a warning about the wrath he’d face if the wall doesn’t rise: “The Former Trumpers should keep Donald Trump awake at night.”Coulter isn’t just any Trump critic. She was one of his earliest, most prominent — and fiercest — advocates. He came down that escalator and ranted about Mexican rapists and she swooned. Understandably: His diatribes against immigrants were cribbed from her 2015 best seller, “¡Adios, America!: The Left’s Plan to Turn Our Country into a Third World Hellhole.” It was published around the time of his campaign announcement. She had sent him an advance copy.So Coulter was Trump’s muse. She was also his oracle, predicting his nomination and election back when most others still dismissed him as a joke. And she’s a barometer of, and tribune for, some of his core supporters, including her good friend Matt Drudge.It’s for that reason that I pressed her to visit The Times. We spoke for about an hour. We could have clashed over an array of issues and recent statements of hers. But the agenda was her relationship with Trump and his political bind: He is pleasing neither her nor swing voters in the suburbs. That has implications not just for 2020 but also for the November midterms.Her agreement to talk hinged in part on our history. I have been discussing politics with her for almost two decades. I remember vividly a dinner in early 2016 when she laid out for me how Trump would prevail. She mentioned Michigan, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania. I thought she was delusional. Then came Nov. 8.What follows is a condensed and edited transcript of our conversation.But something switched Nov. 8. Suddenly it was: “Please like me, Goldman Sachs.”Immigration should be a bipartisan issue. I wish Trump would give something like a fireside chat. That’s what he should have done the day of his inauguration: Sit in the Oval Office and say, perfectly somberly and kindly: “I said some wild things during the campaign, it sounds like it’s divisive and angry, but now we need to bring the country together. We can disagree on other things, but one thing that ought to unite us is that we want to protect the people already here.” It’s a perfectly bipartisan issue.“¡Adios, America!” came out two weeks before Trump came down the escalator. The book hadn’t even come out yet and I get an email from one of Trump’s people saying, “Mr. Trump would like a copy of your book.” I Fedexed it to his office. I have avoided seeking or requesting credit on this. His instincts were very good. I think he should take credit. His instincts are amazing.I’ve met Jared. He’s very nice. But if a relative of mine suddenly bought Ivanka’s fashion company, I wouldn’t demand to be the one put in charge of designing the clothes and figuring out if they are going to be made in Macau or India. Not my area of expertise.There were all these rumors about how he was bringing his kids. They were there during the transition. Wait a second. A, they know nothing about politics. B, as far as we know, to this moment, they’ve been liberal Democrats. They’re very nice people but Bobby Kennedy was a nice person — and he knew a little bit more about politics — and when J.F.K. made Bobby his attorney general, the press pulled its nose out of J.F.K.’s butt just long enough to criticize him for that. We don’t like nepotism. We’re Americans. This is third-world behavior. Which is what I told the president.If he doesn’t have us anymore — that’s what he should be worried about, because, you play those people for suckers? The ones who stood by him through thick and thin and thought this was finally something different? Former Trumpers should put the fear of God in him.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSGov. Jerry Brown of California on Friday pardoned five ex-convicts facing possible deportation, drawing criticism from President Trump and heightening continued tensions between Washington and California.On Saturday morning Mr. Trump tweeted a list of crimes that he linked to the five who were pardoned and asked, “Is this really what the great people of California want?”“I am committed to advancing reform efforts to prevent crime, improve re-entry and reduce recidivism,” Mr. Trump said in a news release.Some of these cases involved immigrants who faced deportation or who had already been deported. An exact breakdown was not immediately available.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“We believe that deportation is an enhancement to their sentences that goes way too far,” she said. “They’ve actually paid their debt to society.”Immigration law is “so punitive, that it just does not forgive,” she added. “Most judges, their hands are tied behind their back,” she said, and the inability to have any discretion promotes large-scale deportation.“Sanctuary cities put innocent Americans at the mercy of hardened criminals and heartless drug dealers,” Mr. Trump added. “These are bad people.”Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — The Trump administration said on Friday that it could immediately fund 100 miles of new and replacement border fencing, a first step in the president’s plans for building a wall on part of the United States’ nearly 2,000-mile border with Mexico.The replacement fencing includes 28 miles in the San Diego region and a new 30-foot-high barrier in Calexico, Calif., that extends for two miles. In New Mexico, the Border Patrol will replace 20 miles of barriers that are intended to stop vehicles with new fencing to prevent people from crossing into the United States.Ronald D. Vitiello, the acting deputy commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, described the construction as part of a new wall system because it would replace older, outdated barriers. Customs and Border Protection is the parent agency of the Border Patrol.A mix of barriers — like chain-link fences, steel walling and beams — already stretches across more than 650 miles of the border. Ultimately, Mr. Vitiello said, the administration aims to cover 1,000 miles on the border with fencing or a wall.President Trump has made the border wall a focus of his campaign against illegal immigration that he says will stop drugs, terrorists and transnational gangs like MS-13 from coming into the United States. The wall is projected to cost $25 billion over the next 10 years.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The spending plan includes just $641 million for about 33 miles of new fencing that was already authorized by the 2006 Secure Fence Act. The rest of the $1.6 billion is allocated to replace older border fencing and buy new aircraft, sensors and surveillance technology.The report found that fewer people were apprehended in areas with border barriers. But it also noted other factors — including terrain, demographics, geography, technology and the number of Border Patrol officers — also probably contributed to the drop in traffic.Officials at Customs and Border Protection acknowledged that a border wall alone would not stop illegal immigration or drug trafficking. But they said it was a critical component of a “layered approach” to securing the border, along with agents and technology like drones, sensors and cameras.“The truth is walls work,” Mr. Vitiello said. “The data shows it.”See More »Go to Home Page »Citing President Trump’s “racially charged language,” a federal judge in Brooklyn ruled on Thursday that a lawsuit seeking to preserve a program that protects hundreds of thousands of young undocumented immigrants from deportation could continue.The order, by Judge Nicholas G. Garaufis of Federal District Court in Brooklyn, was the strongest sign so far of judicial support for the program known as DACA, or Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, which has for months been the subject of a heated debate in Congress.But in his order rejecting the motion to dismiss, Judge Garaufis pointed directly at Mr. Trump, noting that his numerous “racial slurs” and “epithets” — both as a candidate and from the White House — had created a “plausible inference” that the decision to end DACA violated the equal protection clause of the Constitution.“One might reasonably infer,” Judge Garaufis wrote, “that a candidate who makes overtly bigoted statements on the campaign trail might be more likely to engage in similarly bigoted action in office.”The ruling on Thursday took the legal process in New York one step further, strongly hinting at what Judge Garaufis thought about the suit’s central claims. It did not offer a conclusive win for the plaintiffs, only allowing the case to move forward toward a summary judgment decision or a trial. But it was notable for its strong language suggesting that there may have been an improper racial motivation for rescinding the DACA program.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.While the judge noted that looking for racial bias, especially in “campaign-trail statements,” was a potentially fraught process that could result in an “evidentiary snark hunt,” he concluded that his court could not “bury its head in the sand when faced with overt expressions of prejudice.”In a separate prong of the ruling, Judge Garaufis said that the decision to rescind DACA violated the Administrative Procedure Act, or APA, a federal law that bars the government from repealing policies arbitrarily, capriciously or without a rational basis.The plaintiffs immediately welcomed the ruling as yet another victory in the case.“We’re pleased the court ruled that our substantive equal protection and APA claims can proceed,” said Amy Spitalnick, a spokeswoman for Eric T. Schneiderman, the New York State attorney general. “We look forward to continuing our litigation to protect Dreamers and New York’s businesses, economy, and institutions.”Jessica Hanson, a lawyer for the National Immigration Law Center, said that the ruling “again acknowledged that our brave plaintiffs present important claims, including that the decision to terminate DACA was rooted in Trump’s bias against Latinos.”Devin O’Malley, a spokesman for the Justice Department, did not address Judge Garaufis’s criticisms of Mr. Trump. In a statement, he said that DACA was “an unlawful circumvention of Congress” and that the Trump administration was “within its lawful authority” in winding it down.“The Justice Department will continue to vigorously defend this position,” Mr. O’Malley added, “and looks forward to vindicating its position in further litigation.”An earlier version of this article misspelled the surname of the spokeswoman for the New York attorney general. She is Amy Spitalnick, not Spitalnik.See More »Go to Home Page »Nearly all applicants for a visa to enter the United States — an estimated 14.7 million people a year — will be asked to submit their social media user names for the past five years, under proposed rules that the State Department issued on Friday.The proposal covers 20 social media platforms. Most of them are based in the United States: Facebook, Flickr, Google+, Instagram, LinkedIn, Myspace, Pinterest, Reddit, Tumblr, Twitter, Vine and YouTube. But several are based overseas: the Chinese sites Douban, QQ, Sina Weibo, Tencent Weibo and Youku; the Russian social network VK; Twoo, which was created in Belgium; and Ask.fm, a question-and-answer platform based in Latvia.But the new proposal would add a tangible new requirement for millions of people who apply to visit the United States for business or pleasure, including citizens of such countries as Brazil, China, India and Mexico.In addition, visitors traveling on diplomatic and official visas will mostly be exempted.As news of the plan emerged on Friday, so did criticism.“This attempt to collect a massive amount of information on the social media activity of millions of visa applicants is yet another ineffective and deeply problematic Trump administration plan,” said Hina Shamsi, director of the American Civil Liberties Union’s National Security Project. “It will infringe on the rights of immigrants and U.S. citizens by chilling freedom of speech and association, particularly because people will now have to wonder if what they say online will be misconstrued or misunderstood by a government official.”Facebook said its position had not changed since last year, when it said: “We oppose any efforts to force travelers at the border to turn over their private account information, including passwords.”Along with the social media information, visa applicants will be asked for past passport numbers, phone numbers and email addresses; for records of international travel; whether they have been deported or removed, or violated immigration law, in the past; and whether relatives have been involved in terrorist activities.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Maintaining robust screening standards for visa applicants is a dynamic practice that must adapt to emerging threats,” the State Department said in a statement. “We already request limited contact information, travel history, family member information, and previous addresses from all visa applicants. Collecting this additional information from visa applicants will strengthen our process for vetting these applicants and confirming their identity.”Last year, John F. Kelly, who was then the secretary of homeland security and is now Mr. Trump’s chief of staff, told members of Congress that his department was considering asking visitors for passwords and access to online accounts.“We want to get on their social media, with passwords,” Mr. Kelly told members of the House Homeland Security Committee. “If they don’t want to cooperate, then you don’t come in.”The new State Department requirements will not take effect immediately. The proposal set off a 60-day period for public comment, which ends on May 29.On Sina Weibo, one of China’s largest social media platforms, several users were critical of the plan.“Does it mean someone’s visa application will likely be rejected if he/she has been critical of the U.S.?” one wrote. “What about your sacred ‘freedom of speech?’”Another user wrote: “We Chinese have learned well enough the lessons to be drawn from isolation. Now it’s America’s turn.”Audrey Jiajia Li contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »A federal judge in Washington issued a sweeping order on Friday that temporarily prevents the government from blocking access to abortion services for undocumented, pregnant minors who have been detained in federal immigration custody.In issuing the preliminary injunction, Judge Tanya S. Chutkan of United States District Court barred the government from interfering with hundreds of teenagers’ access to medical appointments, counseling, abortion procedures or other care, writing that the government’s practice of doing so infringed on the teenagers’ constitutional rights.Since March 2017, the Office of Refugee Resettlement had instructed employees at federally funded shelters to not take “any action that facilitates an abortion without direction and approval from the director of O.R.R.,” court documents say. The Trump administration has argued that their policies do not create a so-called undue burden because undocumented teenagers seeking an abortion can obtain one by finding a sponsor or voluntarily deporting themselves to their home country.“This court does not find that either of these ‘options’ mitigates the undue burden that O.R.R.’s policy imposes on the young women in its custody,” Judge Chutkan wrote, calling the government’s proposal a “Hobson’s choice.”While the Office of Refugee Resettlement and its director “are certainly entitled to maintain an interest in fetal life,” and even to prefer that pregnant teens in their custody choose one course over the other, federal officials “may not create or implement any policy that strips” the undocumented children “of their right to make their own reproductive choices,” Judge Chutkan, who was appointed by President Barack Obama, continued.Brigitte Amiri, deputy director of the American Civil Liberties Union Reproductive Freedom Project, said in a statement that the group was “relieved that the court issued an order preventing the administration from continuing this practice while our case proceeds.”“With today’s rulings, we are one step closer to ending this extreme policy once and for all and securing justice for all of these young women,” she said.It was unclear late Friday whether the Trump administration would appeal the ruling. The Justice Department did not immediately respond Friday night to email and phone messages seeking comment.Go to Home Page »Supported byAustralia diaryAfter enduring the struggle to buy a home, a multicultural crowd of friends gathers for a Hindu celebration.Western sydneyBy Sheila Ngoc PhamOn a warm day in Westmead we marked an important milestone in every Australian adult’s life: The first property purchase.Jiva’s search for a flat had ended here in a suburb of Sydney, one the most expensive cities in the world — that’s also one of the world’s most multicultural urban areas.As the incense burned and prayers were chanted, Jiva threw flower petals in offering to the goddess.Looking around the room I was struck by the eclectic mix of people, a reflection of Jiva’s history as well as Australia’s.For one thing, a lot of us had been refugees from civil wars who resettled here, back in the days when the country’s refugee policy was not so hard-line: Iraq, Bosnia, Sri Lanka — where Jiva and his family hailed from — and Vietnam, in my family’s case.The rest were different kinds of migrants, like Anglo-Australians a few generations in and people like Sonal from the United Kingdom — though her Gujarati family had fled Uganda under Idi Amin.I saw a young woman wearing tortoise shell glasses and I couldn’t place her yet she looked familiar — until I realized I’d actually taken a photo of her and posted it to Instagram last month.Turns out Uma was a distant cousin of Jiva’s and they’d recently found each other through Facebook.As he chanted fluently, one of the women kept looking at him and smiling, as though she couldn’t quite believe her ears.Sometimes a new home includes surprises. Sometimes, so does Australia.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported bylensThe life of a North Korean defector is brutally carved into two parts: before and after. Those who escape exchange their country’s near-total isolation for the headiness of freedom. But in the process, their history is erased.An artist, a concert pianist and a political prison camp guard who is still haunted by his own brutality are among those who sat for Mr. Franco. Their testimonials vary in detail, but most share a shade of regret. Although their stories are impossible to confirm, Mr. Franco thinks that some accounts may be slightly exaggerated — perhaps because stories of defection become currency in South Korea. Fitting into a new society can be painful; distrust and indifference make it difficult to find work. As a result, Mr. Franco said, many defectors are forced to capitalize on their escape by writing books or appearing on TV shows.Mr. Franco translated this exploration of identity into the photographic process itself. Working with an old wooden 4x5 camera, Fuji instant film and a series of chemical procedures, Mr. Franco reclaimed a negative from the developed print, an analog material that is not supposed to exist. It’s a long and risky business that he said echoes the dangerous journey of the North Korean migrant. The result is “uncertain, dirty and imperfect,” with scratches on the surface while the bleaching process creates an eerie green border (that can eat away at the image if applied imprecisely).“This really fits,” Mr. Franco said. “They feel they will arrive in a perfect world … but far from it.”The following stories are written by the photographer based on interviews with those he photographed, and have been edited for brevity and clarity.One night in 1994, Ahn Myeong-Cheol’s world was flipped upside down. Armed with an AK-47 and a few pistols, and wearing his prison guard uniform, he escaped in a jeep to the Tumen River, which marks the border with China. He swam across the river, getting rid of the weapons that were pulling him down, and half an hour later, he finally reached the Chinese side of the river.Eight years earlier, he had gotten his first job as a guard in a political prison camp. On the first day, he had been told to leave his humanity behind, that all the convicts were traitors or spies for the enemy and that even communicating with them was considered a serious offense. Beatings and killings were routine, and soon enough, he began to practice his taekwondo skills on a few of the convicts. After eight years of service, he discovered his father had committed suicide rather than face the consequences of speaking negatively about the regime. His entire family was then taken away to a detainment camp, and he finally understood why so many families were among the convicts. He decided then that it would be his last night in North Korea.The year 1997 may have been the worst in the North Korean famine. Lee So-yeon had joined the army voluntarily, hoping for a better future, regular meals and a chance to join the Worker’s Party. But she faced a very different reality. The famine had reached deep into the military, and recruits were fed only half-rations mixed with wild grass, while sexual harassment and abuse were a daily threat.After 10 years in the military, she heard about defectors to South Korea and decided to leave. On her first attempt to cross the Tumen River, she was in her underwear, holding her only set of dry clothes above her head with her legs bleeding from the jagged rocks, and she was greeted on the Chinese side by human traffickers. She refused to go with them and was thrown back into the river to be captured again on the North Korean side. After a year in prison, she managed to gather enough tips from fellow inmates to finally make a second, successful attempt.Now living in the South, she still struggles to identify herself to her South Korean neighbors. The prejudice in society, her strong accent and the fear of North Korean spies still make her feel that she has not completely found her place.He wanted to be part of the North Korean elite to date the girl of his dreams, but Choi Seong-Guk was neither rich nor well connected. When South Korean dramas became popular on the North Korean black market, he saw an opportunity. He set up a small portrait studio where customers could replace the actors’ faces on popular forbidden TV drama screen- grabs with their own. This idea proved successful and very lucrative. He soon managed to make enough money to open one of Pyongyang’s first computer rooms. In 2006, he was arrested after smuggling movies. The offense was serious, but some of his customers were influential government officials and he was let off lightly. But he was sent away from the capital, and suddenly, all his work had been for nothing. He would not get the girl of his dreams.This was the moment he decided to defect to the South. Although he left North Korea and the rules of the regime behind, the dating culture in South Korea has proved not so different after all.Park Soo-yeon had been part of the new elite. Between big banquets halls, private hot springs and luxury resorts, her lifestyle differed greatly from what many associate with North Korea. When the first trade routes were opened into the country, she soon got her hands on a videocassette of the South Korean movie “The Green Fish.” She was immediately struck by the sensuality and level of intimacy that could be shown outside her country. She also became fascinated with the diversity of makeup used by South Korean women, especially the dark lipstick worn by the actresses. There was only one color allowed in the North. She realized, however, that by mixing that color with eye-shadow, she could achieve the same tint as in the movie, and the new trend spread quickly among the North Korea elite. But the more movies and dramas she discovered, the more her curiosity grew and the more she longed for the love that she could only glimpse through her television screen.When she defected to the South, she found out for the first time about the hardships and difficulty most North Korean defectors face, and felt so ashamed that she would remain vague about her own story for many years. She is now the owner of a matchmaking company, helping North Korean defectors find love in the South.From a very young age, Han Song-i dreamed of becoming a star. Growing up in the northeast part of North Korea, she could observe China from the other side of the Amnok River. In those regions, North Koreans have greater access to imported goods and Chinese TV channels. This is how she discovered the K-pop phenomenon. At 17, she made up her mind to escape and fulfill her dream. Her family’s wealth made it easy for her to prepare for the trip, and after 10 days on buses, across China, Laos and Thailand, she finally reached Seoul. She found her place, fairly quickly, on a local TV show, in which serious interviews are mixed with entertainment to tell the stories and hardships of life in North Korea. Nowadays, people recognize her in the street and restaurants owners give her free meals. She’s made it.Many North-Korean defectors make a living by telling their stories through TV shows, public talks or books. For Han Song-i, it has caused confusion about her own identity. Her North Korean life is what made her famous — her South Korean passport allowed her to become a star.Born in the North Korean capital, Kim Cheol-woong enjoyed a privileged life. His parents had government positions and his talent for music was recognized from an early age. In 1995, he was even sent to the Moscow State Tchaikovsky Conservatory to study. When he got back to North Korea, he became the youngest musician to join the National Symphony Orchestra.In 2001, Kim Cheol-woong was in love. He planned to use music to propose to his girlfriend, and was practicing a piece by one of his favorite composers, Richard Clayderman. But playing foreign music in North Korea is forbidden, as only official propaganda music is allowed, and it did not take long for someone to report him. He was arrested by the State Security Department and was forced to write a self-criticism letter. The ordeal shifted his perspective, and a few weeks later he crossed the Tumen River into China in search of freedom.As he was being processed through national security after his arrival in South Korea, he began to realize that he had been lucky to have lived as he did in the North and that after this event he would never be able to go back. He leads a less privileged life in the South, and part of him misses his old North Korean life.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSHis brown eyes sunken and flat, Jahangir Baroch had spent another sleepless night in the metal container on the Greek island of Lesbos where he has lived for more than a year.“There was no electricity in the container last night,” Mr. Baroch, 26, said desperately, at a center for refugees, away from the holding camp in Moria, where he is housed. “It was like a fridge.”“I want to go to Athens,” said Mr. Baroch, who came from Baluchistan, an embattled province in Pakistan. “If you don’t want me, I want to go to another country.”“Why am I here?” he asked, somberly.The lucky ones, whose asylum applications are accepted, are eventually shipped to the Greek mainland. Those whose applications are rejected (they can apply twice) are sent back to Turkey as part of the deal with the European Union.Some 5,500 people are detained in Moria, about 2,500 more than the camp was designed to hold. Greek officials gave us a limited and chaperoned tour of parts of Moria, and numerous people described the conditions they lived in.Rain soaks through the tents, and there is a lack of electricity and hot water in the showers, even in winter. The public toilets and showers are soiled with feces. As bad as the food is, it often runs out. The lines — for everything — are endless. Fights break out constantly. Violence, theft and rape are constant threats.“Even if you are healthy, in Moria you’ll get a problem,” said Amir Ali, a 27-year-old from Herat, a city in western Afghanistan, who lived in Moria for more than 11 months.“That’s not a place to put people in,” he said. “The police cannot control the camp.”He left Moria, found a job as a house worker and then as a seamster, rented a house in Mytilene, the capital of Lesbos, where he has chosen to stay, his asylum application accepted.Others have been placed by the state in a makeshift camp, which is not much better, on the fringes of Moria, in an olive grove.Get the Morning Briefing in your inbox. What you need to know to start your day, each weekday morning.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.He showed the outdoor shower, a hose in the open, biting cold of the Aegean winter. The space was covered with garbage, plastic bags and used body soap containers.“Very cold, very cold, very cold,” he said in limited English.Even having experienced war, Samir Alhabr, a 26-year-old engineer from Iraq, described the makeshift camp as “a very dangerous place.”He had seen Islamic State fighters execute his father and his brother and witnessed many other killings in Iraq, he said. But life in the camp was only adding to his traumas.“This place is no good,” he said.He has started to sleep with his most valued possessions — cellphone, money and cigarettes — all stuffed in his pockets, to avoid being robbed while he was asleep.The sense of constant insecurity has begun to play on his nerves. He fears for his mental health and went to the camp doctor. He presented papers, in Greek, listing his symptoms:Irritable mood; recurring thoughts of traumatic events; auditory hallucinations; insomnia-nightmares; attention-memory disorder; social isolation; suicidal tendency and a failed suicide attempt.The diagnosis: Psychotic disorder, undetermined. Post-traumatic stress disorder.“I saw, I saw,” he mutters, his eyes wide, though it is unclear what he saw exactly. “But here, I get no help for myself.”In order to survive, some have tried to build a daily routine with some semblance of normality.Khalil, 13, lives in Kara Tepe — yet another camp on the island. Originally from Afghanistan, he and his friends ride their bicycles and go fishing along the shore to kill time.To ease processing and communication, the authorities sometimes try to group the asylum seekers by nationality; sometimes they gravitate toward each other anyway.Eritreans and Ethiopians have used part of their allowance provided by the European Union, 90 euros per month, to renovate and decorate an Orthodox Church from the 1950s.As the church is within walking distance of Moria, they pray there every afternoon and, despite their limited food in the camp, they fast from meat and dairy in preparation for the Orthodox Easter.Others play sports to bond or blow off steam.Some have lost hope their applications will be accepted and are desperate to get out.A 20-year-old Algerian, who would give his name only as Anas for fear of running afoul of the authorities, said he had tried to smuggle himself off the island multiple times in trucks being loaded on ships for Athens. Each time, he was discovered by military officers.He knows the chances of his asylum application being accepted are slim.“We from Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, can’t go,” he said. But he keeps on trying.“Every day I’m here,” he said. “Sometimes I try, sometimes not. It’s hard to leave.”In the international pecking order for asylum, Syrians, Iraqis and sometimes Afghans stand a better chance because their countries are actively at war. Still, not everyone makes it, separating friends.For the women in Moria camp, the situation is often worse.A 30-year-old woman from Afghanistan, who asked that her name not be published out of fear of being hunted down by her former spouse, described how she fled Afghanistan a year and a half ago, when her husband of 13 years tried to kill her.In Turkey, she said she was sold to a smuggler, who imprisoned her in a room with no light, gave her no food and raped her for a week.When she eventually arrived in Moria, things got worse. “I wanted to kill myself when I saw the situation,” she said.At first, there was no place for her in the overcrowded sections that separate single women from men, and she was forced to sleep in a tent with both men and women.One night, she lost her way in the dark and found herself in the woods of Moria. A man grabbed her from behind and raped her.She went to the police, but after she filed her complaint, they sent her back to Moria. “I wanted to kill myself,” she said.Giannis Mpalpakakis, the director of the Moria camp, which is run by the Greek state but largely financed by the European Union, acknowledged the challenges that he and his team are facing and insisted that they were doing their best, given the extreme circumstances.“We are trying really hard to help these people; we are not indifferent,” he said.“Overcrowding is a huge issue for us,” he acknowledged. “Moria is the most overcrowded place in the world, if you divide the number of people living here by the square meter.”Yet the numbers arriving are expected to rise again as the weather warms. The slow processing of cases reduces the population at the camps, while the trickle of new arrivals replenishes it.Graves on the island, old and new, betray the dangers of the sea crossing. Boats have capsized and run aground. Rescuers patrol the coasts even now.“We need to increase the flow of migrants from Greece to Turkey, and decrease the flow from Turkey to Greece,” said Miltos Oikonomidis, a European Union policy officer.Since January, only 64 people have been sent back to Turkey. Yet 2,698 people arrived on the island of about 86,000 people.An additional 2,365 were moved to Athens, while 147 left Lesbos voluntarily. There are currently more than 7,800 refugees across all of Lesbos.“No matter the efforts that are underway in Moria, the point is to reduce the influx of refugees,” Mr. Oikonomidis said.But that will remain difficult to do. Some are not just fleeing war; they’re seeking opportunity, freedom.“You’re thinking about the future,” said Isaac Hielo, a 29-year-old from Eritrea, who said his family had died of AIDS.Does he have hope?“Yes,” he said with a smile. “Tomorrow is another day, yes?”Mauricio Lima contributed reporting from Lesbos, Greece.Produced by Chris Cirillo and Gaia Tripoli.Go to Home Page »The conservative author says that Donald Trump is in danger of losing his most loyal supporters, including her, if he doesn’t build the wall.In a tight labor market, positions in poultry plants and lumber mills can be tough to fill. But that spells opportunity for recruiters like Ray Wiley.Yet companies that turn to labor recruiters like Ray Wiley tend to have an especially tough time: The jobs they offer are in out-of-way places; the work is low-paid and disagreeable; and native-born Americans, particularly white men, are generally not interested.The economy is on solid footing in the ninth year of the recovery, and even entry-level workers have more options. So in Atlanta, San Diego and other cities, Mr. Wiley’s company, East Coast Labor Solutions, finds workers, primarily refugees from war-ravaged countries who don’t speak English. Other candidates include Puerto Ricans discouraged by the island’s lack of jobs, as well as immigrants — here legally, he emphasizes — who have no problem passing a drug test.“I’m ready to go right now,” said Ronald Johnson, 37, who showed up one afternoon with two friends at Labor Solutions’ bare, second-floor office in Silver Spring, Md. He had heard from others in his community of Sierra Leone refugees that this agency could immediately place anyone willing to move to a nearby state. “I want to go where they pay the most money and charge the least for rent.”Within an hour, all three men agreed to move to a rural town they had never heard of, to take a job they had never done before.But long before complaints about the North American Free Trade Agreement or steel imports from China commanded headlines, a domestic version of this pattern was already playing out in some industries. And as the pay changed, so did the face of the work force, once dominated by white males. Women, immigrants and people of color now hang chickens on hooks or hack them into parts on an assembly line. They are paid about half of what their counterparts earned four decades ago (after taking inflation into account), and have fewer benefits and protections. Such conditions don’t foster long-term stability. In some plants, employers have to replace up to 70 percent of their staffs every year.Reducing that churn has become harder as the unemployment rate has dropped and several cities have raised the minimum wage.Haimonet Demcasso, the recruiter, explained, in two languages, the broad outlines of the jobs. The poultry-plant work pays roughly $11 to $13 an hour in small towns in Virginia and West Virginia. Labor Solutions would transport the recruits, find apartments for them to share, help fill out paperwork, and advance them the money to cover their travel, the first month’s rent, the security deposit, heavy work boots and home essentials. They could pay it back out of their paychecks with no interest at a rate of $60 a week.They are paid the same as other plant workers, but they are employees of Labor Solutions for up to a year, until they’ve repaid their loans.More details about the job itself would come once they went through orientation at the plant, Ms. Demcasso said.For Mr. Johnson, who had recently lost his job as a van driver and was already dodging calls from debt collectors, upfront money made the difference. “For me to rent an apartment, I need a boatload of money,” he said.His wife, Elizabeth, was more skeptical when she heard about the deal. An apartment and two jobs just waiting for them? Money up front? There were plenty of unscrupulous recruiters who made all kinds of promises and deceived trusting job seekers — a cruel and sordid side of the industry that Mr. Wiley acknowledged is all too common.“I was dragging my feet,” Ms. Johnson said. But after coming up for a day to check the area and the classrooms her two children would attend in Woodstock, Va., she was convinced. “I loved the school just by looking at it,” she said. Most important, she saw no signs of the drugs, violence and bullying that plagued the White Oak neighborhood of Silver Spring, where they were temporarily doubled up with family. “And there’s no roaches and mice or rats.”Mr. Wiley said that when he started working with refugees, mostly Burmese, in 2008, he didn’t offer money and support, but he soon realized that the job placements wouldn’t last without it. Resettlement agency assistance was temporary and many job seekers didn’t speak English. So he hired case managers to translate, help with school enrollment, drive recruits to the supermarket, find English classes and more.Berhane Teklay, who once hung live chickens upside down in a plant, handles the 30 or so workers Mr. Wiley has placed in Woodstock.“You need somebody to help you get into the system,” Mr. Teklay said, and that’s what Labor Solutions does. For refugees who can’t speak English well or drive a car, he said, a job in a meat-processing plant is about the best they can do.Fluent in Arabic, Amharic, Tigrinya and English, Mr. Teklay acts as interpreter, administrator, real estate agent, loan office, complaint bureau and overall fixer.For a year, he helped Waleed Kanuo, Elfadil Daoud and Ali Hamid, refugees from Sudan, settle into an apartment in Woodstock and navigate the system, until they transferred to working directly for the poultry-plant operator. Gathered in the living room of the sparsely furnished apartment they share, all three said they were saving money and grateful to Labor Solutions for finding them a job.For others, the experience is more mixed.Mr. Kabba, for instance, said he had not known that he would have to pay an additional $25 every week for the daily mile ride from a co-worker to and from the plant. Nor did he understand that he would be working for Labor Solutions and not the processing plant directly, which he said makes it more difficult to switch departments, and means he is not yet eligible for the health benefits or 401(k) plan.At the same time, plant conditions are regimented and unforgiving, with 30 minutes for lunch and two 10-minute bathroom breaks that workers said don’t include time to change out and into cumbersome protective garb. And small infractions can lead to firing.But as a friend of Mr. Kabba’s says, that’s the way it is in America: They tell you all the sweet stuff, and not the salty. “It’s a job,” Mr. Kabba said of the $11.70-an-hour work, which pays a $1-an-hour bonus if he’s on time every day of the week. “You can’t pick and choose.” And he loves Woodstock’s quiet.Teddy Marchant, 32, a former housemate of Mr. Kabba’s, did not. Within a couple of days, he realized that the small town, without so much as a movie theater, wasn’t for him. He needed the cash, he said, but “if I had my way, I don’t think I’d be here.” He soon left.Ms. Johnson had time to check out the place but not the $11-an-hour job she was promised. “I had no idea of what I was going to see,” she said.When she walked into the plant, it was a shock. “Oh, my God, I saw chickens — lots and lots and lots of chickens, 350,000 chickens a day,” she said, still shaking her head at the looping conveyor belts crowded with birds. “If you scratch your face or bend down, you might miss a couple of chickens.”She clocked in at 5:30 a.m. and rotated hanging up the dead chickens, cleaning out guts and cutting off legs, wings and backs to ready the meat for packaging, she said.It is physically demanding, repetitive and smelly, Ms. Johnson said.A smell that her husband noted was also “the smell of money.”Mr. Johnson, who was born in Libya and lived in Sierra Leone before moving to the United States 16 years ago as a refugee, was initially the most enthusiastic about the job. In November, he was jogging with his children in the morning, thinking about getting a second job to build up savings, and dreaming about a music studio where he could compose and record the music that played endlessly through his head.But by January, he was out of a job for a violation of the processing plant’s policy. A couple months later, Ms. Johnson also left the plant after finding another local job.The work is not for everyone, Mr. Wiley concedes. But he maintains that for many refugees, including Mr. Teklay, his Woodstock branch manager, it provides a foothold.“They want the American dream, and they don’t mind starting off on the bottom,” he said. “There’s a lot of unskilled work in the U.S. that Americans will not do, and these people are doing it.”Follow Patricia Cohen on Twitter: @PatcohenNYTSee More »Go to Home Page »SAN FRANCISCO —  A Mexican father arrested by immigration officials after dropping off his daughter at day care in California was released from a detention center on Monday and will be allowed to remain in the U.S. after a judge ruled he could face persecution with a return to Mexico.Fernando Carrillo walked out of a U.S. immigration office in San Francisco and hugged his wife and daughter as dozens of supporters cheered around him.Last week, a U.S. immigration judge withdrew the order to remove Carrillo from the country after Carrillo proved that he would be persecuted if he returned to Mexico, said his attorney, Hedi Framm-Anton."Welcome home!" the crowd cheered as Carrillo held his daughter in his arms."I'm extremely happy and thankful to all the people, my family and God," Carrillo said after his release. "I just don't believe it yet."Framm-Anton didn't provide specific information about what claims Carrillo made in court but told the Mercury News that the argument was "based on his blood relationship with a family member in Mexico who is involved in fighting a certain type of crime."Carrillo is from Mexico City and arrived in the U.S. in 2004, Framm-Anton said.He was arrested by Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers in October after he was convicted of a drunken-driving offense. Officials have said he was previously deported from the U.S.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Carrillo said he was driving his daughter to day care when he noticed an unmarked police car behind him. He turned back, went home and took another route to drop off his daughter, he said. After he dropped her off, he was approached by immigration officers and taken into custody, he said.Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokesman Richard Rocha did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment on the case."This is something we were hoping for," Carrillo's wife, Lourdes Barraza said. "We obviously had faith that it would happen, eventually, and we are just very grateful to God and grateful to the community for the support we have received."___Balsamo reported from Los Angeles.Go to Home Page »NEW YORK —  Federal authorities say an immigration detainee about to be deported to Senegal escaped custody at New York's Kennedy Airport and fled in a taxi.A spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement says Mohamadou Lamine Mbacke was in the custody of its agents at the airport Tuesday night when he bolted and got into a cab.The agency says Mbacke entered the country lawfully in 2005 but violated the terms of his status.Mbacke was ordered deported in September 2015. ICE spokesman Khaalid Walls says the 31-year-old Mbacke has criminal convictions for weapons offenses.Walls says Mbacke had not been located Wednesday.Go to Home Page »NEW YORK —  The Trump administration has sharply curtailed a once-common practice of granting long-term reprieves to immigrants targeted for deportation, a Reuters analysis of court records shows, adding to an already huge backlog of cases in U.S. immigration courts.The trend underscores how the Trump administration's broad crackdown on illegal immigration has sometimes had unintended consequences. Attorney-General Jeff Sessions had vowed to reduce that case backlog, but the government's aggressive opposition to reprieves has caused the opposite to happen.Under a procedure known as “administrative closure,” judges can indefinitely shelve deportation cases of immigrants who have lived illegally for years in the United States but have not committed serious crimes and have strong family or other ties in the country. The immigrants are not granted full legal status and their cases can be reopened at any time. In the interim they can remain in the country and often are eligible to work legally.The practice became more common after the Obama administration instructed prosecutors in 2011 to prioritize immigration cases involving criminals. Closures accelerated further after a 2012 decision by the Board of Immigration Appeals, which gave judges additional authority to close cases.As a result, the number of shelved cases rose steadily for several years. In the last year of the Obama administration, more than 56,000 such cases were closed, the Reuters analysis of court records found.In the first year after Donald Trump became president, the trend was sharply reversed, with about 20,000 cases closed, 64 percent fewer than the previous year. (Graphic: http://tmsnrt.rs/2DKhoAJ)Immigrant advocates say some of the most vulnerable immigrants - victims of domestic violence and unaccompanied minors - could potentially be deported even though they are eligible for a visa, because the courts will not set their cases aside.In January, Sessions announced he will review a recent decision of the Board of Immigration Appeals and consider whether judges should have authority to close cases. He sought legal arguments from all sides as he considers the matter.In a December speech, Sessions skewered the Obama administration for closing “nearly 200,000 pending immigration court cases without a final decision” over a five-year period. “We are completing, not closing, immigration cases,” he said.About 542,000 cases were pending three weeks before Trump took office in January 2017, according to a Department of Justice estimate. Since then, the backlog has grown by another estimated 145,000 cases, a 27 percent increase.In comparison, the Obama administration added an average of 41,000 cases to the backlog each year, according to data from the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse (TRAC), a New York-based research organization.OPPOSING VIEWSTrump was elected on a platform of tightening border security and speeding the removal of people living in the country illegally. Early in his presidency, he announced that all categories of immigrants in the country illegally would be considered targets for deportation.Justice Department spokesman Devin O’Malley declined to comment on Reuters’ findings and on when Sessions might conclude his review of whether judges can close cases.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Groups advocating stricter immigration enforcement have long opposed the policy of administrative closure.“We see this as one more example of attempts by the Obama administration to work around the rules of law,” said Michael Hethmon, senior counsel with the conservative Immigration Reform Law Institute in Washington.In a legal filing in the Sessions' review, the American Bar Association cautioned that “withdrawal of administrative closure ... would have profound and long-lasting consequences on the operation of the immigration adjudication system and the lives of those who must proceed through it.”Supporters of the policy also say it allows judges to focus on cases involving criminals and ones in which an immigrant has little possibility of gaining legal status. They note that many of the closed cases involved immigrants who had applications pending for legal status, through asylum claims, marriages to citizens or other means.RUNNING FROM THE GANGSAfter gangs shot her father, paralyzing him and placing him permanently in a wheelchair, Jennifer Mendoza fled Honduras by herself in 2016. She was 10 years old.She was detained after crossing the border, placed in deportation proceedings and held for four months at a facility for unaccompanied minors in Texas until she could be reunited with her mother, Ruth. The two applied for a U visa, which is granted to undocumented immigrants who are victims of violent crime and who help law enforcement try to catch the perpetrators.In February this year, Mendoza moved to close her deportation case while she waited for a decision on her visa. The immigration court judge agreed, but the government lawyer objected and appealed. The case is now pending at the Board of Immigration Appeals.Mendoza’s lawyer, Vicky Dobrin, said the case shows how aggressively the government is fighting closures. Prosecutors used to routinely support closing cases like Mendoza's, said Dobrin.“Within a few months they were starting to oppose everything,” she said.During the last four years of the Obama administration,  prosecutors appealed less than one percent of all case closures. Since Trump took office in January 2017, ICE prosecutors have appealed decisions to close cases 10 times more often, Reuters found.Ashley Tabaddor, president of the immigration judges’ union, said the pushback from prosecutors has meant more work for judges.“The case is going to take much longer and is going to take more resources,” she said.(Reporting by Reade Levinson; Editing by Sue Horton and Ross Colvin)Go to Home Page »LONDON —  To track down people in Britain who may have broken immigration rules, the government is turning to a new and controversial source of information: doctors.Doctors who work with refugees and asylum-seekers have described the move as a major breach of medical ethics, saying it isn't up to physicians to enforce immigration rules.In letters recently made public, politicians sparred with immigration officials over a data-sharing agreement quietly signed in 2016 that gives the government access to personal information collected by the country's family doctors. Medical details are excluded.A parliamentary health committee condemned the situation as "unacceptable," calling for the agreement to be suspended.But Britain's immigration department has dismissed those concerns, arguing that such data sharing allows the U.K. to remove people "who might pose a danger to the public."Medical workers back the health committee's viewpoint."We understand the government has a job to do, but going into health records to get patient information is not OK," said Lucy Jones, director of programs at Doctors of the World U.K. "The idea that any patient information is being shared with a government body immediately breaks their trust in a doctor-patient relationship."Several leading medical organizations, including the Royal College of General Practitioners, Public Health England and the General Medical Council, have all slammed the data-sharing deal, saying it could worsen the health of vulnerable people and drive disease outbreaks underground, hurting health care for all.Dalia Omer, a refugee from Sudan who was granted asylum in the U.K. in February after nearly two years, sought medical help several times while awaiting the government's decision. She said had she known about the data sharing arrangement, she would not have been as forthcoming."If I knew the doctors could share information with the Home Office, I would not tell them everything," she said, referring to the British department that oversees immigration and security. She said she might even lie about certain details to protect herself.Dr. Kitty Worthing, a London-based doctor with the group Docs Not Cops, said "the cornerstone of the doctor-patient relationship is confidentiality and this data-sharing is a direct breach of that." She said when she's advised people that their personal information could be shared with immigration officials "their reaction is always fear."Elsewhere in Europe, many countries have a strict firewall that stops information gathered by health services from being disclosed to other government agencies. Germany's data protection office said regulations prohibit any blanket sharing of such information. In France, no data obtained by doctors is shared with the Interior Ministry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Some health experts said it was critical that some types of health care are available to everyone in the U.K., regardless of their immigration status."With HIV treatment, it makes much more sense to treat everybody with HIV, because treatment lowers the level of virus in your blood so you can't pass it on," said Kat Smithson of the National AIDS Trust. "If people are not diagnosed because they're not accessing health care, they're not aware they're living with HIV, which means they're far more likely to pass it on to somebody else."The British government, however, says protecting its borders outweighs those concerns."We believe that the release of (patient) information is lawful and proportionate action in pursuit of the effective enforcement of the U.K.'s immigration policy," wrote Caroline Noakes, the minister of state for immigration, and James O'Shaughnessy, parliamentary undersecretary of state for health, responding to lawmaker's concerns.They cited the case of a Pakistani citizen who overstayed a visitor's visa. After the Pakistani was refused residency in 2013, contact with the Home Office was broken off. Immigration officials sent a request to health services, which revealed a new address."The Home Office visited the address and arrested the individual, a convicted sex offender, who is now complying with the Home Office and will leave the U.K.," Noakes and O'Shaughnessy wrote, describing patients' non-medical data as being "at the lower end of the privacy spectrum."From last November to January, health officials agreed to nearly 1,300 requests for information. Of those, health officials found 501 cases where patients had a different address from the one in Home Office records.Some Londoners said it was OK for immigration officials to get data from doctors under certain conditions."If the Home Office needs the information for a good reason, I guess it's OK, but they should ask the people for permission," said Farooq, outside an east London clinic that provides health care largely for migrants. He declined to give his last name because he was worried about the immigration status of his father, originally from Afghanistan.Farooq said data sharing could make migrants nervous about getting medical attention."It could put people in a risky situation if they're worried about their visa and they need to see a doctor," he said.___Elaine Ganley in Paris and David Rising in Berlin contributed to this report.___This story changes wording in second paragraph from "last month" to reflect the letters were made public in February.Go to Home Page »Supported byCHICAGO — A Senegalese man who escaped Immigration and Customs Enforcement custody in New York has been arrested in Chicago by the agency's fugitive operations team.Mohamadou Lamine Mbacke was in the custody of ICE agents at New York's Kennedy International Airport late Tuesday when he escaped. ICE agents were preparing to place Mbacke on a commercial flight when he escaped custody.Surveillance cameras show him later getting into a cab. The 31-year-old Mbacke was arrested Friday at a coffee shop near Chicago's Union station.The agency says Mbacke entered the country lawfully in 2005, but violated the terms of his status. Mbacke was ordered deported in September 2015.An immigration court in Detroit ordered Mbacke's deportation following his conviction in November 2013 for a felony firearms offense. He was sentenced to two years imprisonment.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSWASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump declared as "dead" on Monday a program that protects immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children and pressed Congress to pass legislation to secure the U.S. border with Mexico.Trump's latest comments on immigration, made via Twitter, came as the U.S. Department of Justice moved to establish first-ever quotas for immigration judges aimed at speeding up cases and clearing a backlog.Trump said in September he would terminate the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program introduced by his Democratic predecessor, Barack Obama, but gave the Republican-controlled Congress until March 6 to replace it.Congress failed to meet that deadline, but courts have ruled the program can stay in place for now."DACA is dead because the Democrats didn't care or act, and now everyone wants to get onto the DACA bandwagon," the Republican president said in a Twitter post.Trump also urged Congress to "pass tough laws and build the WALL," referring to a U.S.-Mexico border wall he has championed as a way to curb illegal immigration and the flow of drugs.In a move aimed at speeding deportations, the Department of Justice sent an email on Friday to federal immigration judges telling them their job performance would be evaluated based on how quickly they close cases.Judges will be required to complete at least 700 cases a year and have fewer than 15 percent of their decisions appealed and remanded back, according to Dana Marks, spokeswoman for the National Association of Immigration Judges.Another metric demands that 85 percent of removal cases for detained immigrants be completed within three days of a hearing on the merits of the case. The new policy is expected to take effect on Oct. 1.A growing backlog of immigration cases reached 687,000 in March, according to a Reuters analysis of court records, and caused asylum seekers to wait years to present their cases.Amiena Khan, executive vice president of the immigration judges’ union, said the new rules threatened to interfere with judicial independence. “It’s going to create havoc within the courts,” said Khan, who also serves as an immigration judge in New York. “The integrity of the entire process is at risk.”On Monday, senior administration officials told reporters that legislation was being prepared aimed at helping speed deportations of some illegal immigrants. They did not provide a timetable for submitting it to Congress and did not say whether provisions to help DACA recipients would be included.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.No immigration deal has materialized in the Republican-controlled Congress despite months of efforts. The Senate considered several immigration proposals in February but rejected all of them, including bipartisan bills and legislation tailored to Trump's requirements.NO 'RELIABLE PARTNER'Democrats have blamed Trump for the tenuous status of the DACA program that shielded hundreds of thousands of young immigrants, often called "Dreamers," from deportation and gave them work permits.Dick Durbin, the No. 2 Senate Democrat, said in a telephone interview: "After the experience of giving this president six different bipartisan options and having him reject them all ... I don't believe we have a reliable partner" in negotiations that are now dormant.In the past, Trump had said he was open to a deal with congressional Democrats in which they would support funding for the border wall in exchange for protection for the Dreamers.But on Sunday, he indicated that the time had passed, writing on Twitter: "'Caravans' coming. Republicans must go to Nuclear Option to pass tough laws NOW. NO MORE DACA DEAL!"The mention of a caravan apparently referred to a group of 1,500 men, women and children from Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador who are travelling in a "refugee caravan" organised by the U.S.-based immigration advocacy group Pueblo sin Fronteras, whose Spanish name means People Without Borders.By travelling together, the immigrants hope to protect themselves from the crime and extortion that makes the route through Mexico toward the U.S. border dangerous. They say some but not all of them will seek asylum if they reach the United States."The only person gaming DACA is not in the caravan. He's in the Oval Office" of the White House, Durbin said, referring to Trump.(Additional reporting by Doina Chiacu and Sarah Lynch in Washington; Reade Levinson in New York and Suzannah Gonzales in Chicago; Writing by Caren Bohan; Editing by Peter Cooney)Go to Home Page »SANTA ANA, Calif. —  California and its Democratic-controlled Legislature have built a reputation for leading resistance against the Trump administration's immigration crackdown.But at the local level, there's a backlash brewing.On Tuesday, the Orange County Board of Supervisors voted to condemn the state's sanctuary law and join a U.S. Justice Department lawsuit that contends it's unconstitutional.The law, Senate Bill 54, limits police cooperation with federal immigration authorities. It's a capstone of the effort by Gov. Jerry Brown, legislators and mayors of the largest cities in the state to resist stepped-up efforts to deport people in the country illegally and to stop President Donald Trump from building a wall along the U.S. border with Mexico.The Justice Department welcomed Orange County's decision and Trump blasted the state's law on Twitter."My Administration stands in solidarity with the brave citizens in Orange County defending their rights against California's illegal and unconstitutional Sanctuary policies," he posted Wednesday.Orange County, home to 3.2 million people, including hundreds of thousands of immigrants, has seen its decades-long reputation as a conservative GOP base erode in recent years. Hillary Clinton won more votes than Trump in the county in the 2016 election.But on Tuesday its all-Republican Board of Supervisors voted 4-0 to join the federal lawsuit filed earlier this month against SB 54 and two other pro-immigrant state laws.Supervisor Michelle Steel, an immigrant from South Korea, told the crowd that fixing the country's immigration system will take time."Along the way, law enforcement should absolutely cooperate fully within the constraints of federal law," she said.About a dozen people holding American flags and signs reading "Support Our Constitution" cheered the board's actions.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."We cannot have all the states with different immigration laws. It just doesn't make sense," Doris Matyasovich told the board. "Our constitutional republic depends on following the rule of law."Immigrant advocates, however, felt the supervisors had taken a step back in the county where, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, nearly a third of the residents are immigrants."History tells us that we will win. So I will be able to look in my children's and grandchildren's eyes and tell them I was on the right side of history," Bethany Anderson of Fullerton told supervisors. "Will you be able to do that?"State Sen. Kevin de Leon, a Los Angeles Democrat who wrote the state's law, called the decision a "pretty sad use of taxpayer resources.""This kind of obsessive immigrant bashing is embarrassing to the county and its residents, and seems designed to court the approval of a racist President and his cronies," he said in a statement.The move highlights longstanding divisions over immigration in California. For years, some local governments have sought to help federal immigration agents pick up inmates from their jails to prevent them from being released back into their communities, while others have tried to keep their distance to encourage immigrant residents to trust police enough to come forward to report crimes.In Orange County, leaders of the small city of Los Alamitos recently voted for an ordinance to exempt itself from the state's law while leaders in the county seat of Santa Ana — a self-declared immigrant sanctuary — will consider filing an amicus brief to support California in federal court.The county also moved this week to improve communication with federal immigration agents by publishing the release dates of inmates online. The Sheriff's Department used to screen inmates in the county's jails to help Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents identify those subject to deportation but had to stop when the state law passed.Go to Home Page »NEW YORK —  A Guatemalan immigrant who entered a New York City church to seek refuge from immigration authorities said Thursday she will fight to prevent being separated from her children.As she held her 15-month-old baby, Aura Hernandez spoke to reporters inside Fourth Universalist Society, a historic Upper West Side church, where she has been hiding from federal agents. Hernandez, a mother of two who used to clean homes, has lived illegally in the U.S. since 2005."I am not going to keep quiet anymore. I ask all of you to not keep quiet, to defend your rights, the rights of our children," she said in Spanish with tears in her eyes as her 10-year-old son, Daniel, stood by her side. Both of her children were born in the U.S.Hernandez, 37, vows to stay inside the church until her immigration status changes.She entered more than two weeks ago after spending two weeks inside another church, where she first sought refuge.Hernandez is the second immigrant who has publicly sought refuge from immigration authorities in a New York City church. Guatemalan immigrant Amanda Morales entered a church in the Washington Heights neighborhood in August with her three young children.Immigration and Customs Enforcement's official policy considers schools or churches "sensitive locations" in which enforcement action is generally avoided although may occur "in limited circumstances," like under special orders from a supervisor.ICE spokeswoman Rachael Yong Yow said in a statement that Hernandez was issued a final order of removal in 2006."An immigration judge denied a motion to reopen the case and the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) dismissed Hernandez's appeal and affirmed the immigration judge's decision," she said.Hernandez was instructed to report to ICE on March 1 of this year with a ticket to leave the U.S."Hernandez did not report as required and is now considered an ICE fugitive," Yong Yow said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Reverend Schuyler Vogel, senior minister at Fourth Universalist Society, said Hernandez could stay at his church for as long as she needed to."Every community matters, no matter where they are from", he told the crowd. "We need to make sure that American values are defended".Since 2014, at least 70 publicly known cases have emerged of people seeking sanctuary in churches for immigration-related reasons, according to Church World Service, a New York organization that supports the sanctuary efforts. Of those, 51 have come up since President Donald Trump took office in January 2017 and pledged a harder line on immigration.Hernandez's son, Daniel, lives with his father, also an immigrant living illegally in the U.S., in Westchester, New York. He spends his weekends at the church with his mother. On Thursday, he walked with several leaders of local churches and members of the New Sanctuary Coalition, a group that helps Hernandez, in a silent protest around the nearby Trump International Hotel & Tower. He carried a sign that read "please don't deport my mommy".Jeanette Vizguerra, a Mexican immigrant, who took sanctuary in a Colorado church last year and was named by Time magazine as one of the 100 most influential people in the country, stood by Hernandez's side. Vizguerra spent 86 days in sanctuary until she received a temporary reprieve."We, immigrants, are suffering attacks under this administration", said Vizguerra. "If Mr. Trump thought he was going to divide us I have to tell him that he has accomplished the opposite"Hernandez claims that after crossing the border in 2005 she was sexually abused by a border patrol officer but U.S. Customs and Border Patrol spokesperson responded that a full investigation by ICE's Office of Professional Responsibility, the U.S. Attorney's Office and local law enforcement was conducted and the allegations "were found to be unsubstantiated."The New Sanctuary Coalition is seeking to reopen Hernandez's case.Go to Home Page »SEATTLE —  A federal judge in Seattle opened the door Thursday for thousands of immigrants to apply for asylum, finding that the Department of Homeland Security has routinely failed to notify them of a deadline for filing their applications.U.S. District Judge Ricardo S. Martinez issued the ruling in a class-action lawsuit brought by immigrant rights groups on behalf of those who fear persecution if returned to their home country.In many cases, those asylum seekers are released from custody after officials have interviewed them and determined their fears to be credible. They're told that they'll need to appear in immigration court, but they typically aren't personally told that they only have a year to apply for asylum, the lawsuit argued.Due to a backlog in immigration cases, the asylum seekers are often not given a hearing within a year, and thus, by the time they show up in court and learn about the deadline, it's already passed, Martinez found."This means many asylum seekers who were previously going to have a door slammed in their face are now able to say, 'No, a federal court has said that I am timely filing my application and you need to accept it,'" said Matt Adams, legal director of the Northwest Immigrant Rights Project and an attorney for the plaintiffs.Jonathan Withington, a spokesman for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, part of Homeland Security, said the agency does not comment on pending litigation.The judge ordered the department to begin providing notice about the one-year deadline within 90 days any time an immigrant seeking asylum is released from custody pending deportation proceedings. He also said the department must give those who missed the deadline another year to file their applications.Further, Martinez told the department it must fix another catch-22 in its system: that while asylum-seekers must file their asylum applications within a year, the government refuses to accept the applications unless the applicant has been given a formal notice to appear in immigration court.Often those notices aren't issued within a year, so even if asylum seekers know about the one-year deadline, there's virtually no way for them to meet it, Martinez said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.He ordered the government to come up with a uniform system for accepting asylum applications."Defendants have left class members without an adequate mechanism to timely file their asylum applications, thereby denying them the opportunity to exercise their statutory right to apply for asylum," Martinez wrote.Government lawyers argued that they do publish materials that inform asylum seekers of the deadline — including the "Information Guide for Prospective Asylum Applicants," available in 11 languages, and in "Know Your Rights" videos that many detention centers play for detainees.Further, federal law does not require that officials directly notify asylum seekers of the deadline upon their release from custody, the government argued.But Martinez said that given the trauma and stress endured by many asylum seekers, combined with a typical lack of legal counsel and knowledge about U.S. immigration law, the general notifications about the deadline aren't good enough.Martinez also found that personal notification to asylum seekers was needed to carry out the intent of Congress.He noted comments from Republican Utah Sen. Orrin Hatch, also cited by the plaintiffs, about the one-year deadline in 1996: "I am committed to ensuring that those with legitimate claims of asylum are not returned to persecution, particularly for technical deficiencies. If the time limit is not implemented fairly, or cannot be implemented fairly, I will be prepared to revisit this issue in a later Congress."Among the asylum-seekers who sued was Lidia Margarita Lopez Orellana, who arrived in Eagle Pass, Texas, from Guatemala in 2014 with her two youngest children in tow. She said that despite checking in with immigration authorities regularly as required, she didn't learn about the deadline until December 2015, when she met with a lawyer.___Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON —  Trump administration officials said Monday they're crafting a new legislative package aimed at closing immigration "loopholes," hours after the president called on Republicans in Congress to immediately pass a border bill using the "Nuclear Option if necessary" to muscle it through."Border Patrol Agents (and ICE) are GREAT, but the weak Dem laws don't allow them to do their job. Act now Congress, our country is being stolen!" President Donald Trump wrote in a series of sometimes-misleading tweets, fired off after returning from a holiday weekend spent in Florida with several immigration hardliners.Trump also declared protections for so-called Dreamer immigrants "dead," claimed the U.S. has "no effective border laws" and warned Mexico to halt the passage of "caravans" of illegal immigrants or risk retribution."They must stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL!" he wrote.Trump has been seething over immigration since realizing the major spending bill he signed last month barely funds the "big, beautiful" border wall he has promised his supporters. The $1.3 trillion funding package included $1.6 billion in border wall spending, but much of that money can be used only to repair existing segments, not to build new sections.Among the measures the administration is pursuing: ending special safeguards that prevent the immediate deportation of children arrested at the border and traveling alone. Under current law, unaccompanied children from countries that don't border the U.S. would be placed under the supervision of the Department of Health and Human Services and undergo often-lengthy deportation proceedings before an immigration judge instead of being deported.The administration is also pushing Congress to terminate a 1997 court settlement that requires the government to release children from custody to parents, adult relatives or other caretakers as their cases make their way through immigration court. Officials complain that many children never show up at their hearings.The proposals appear the same as those included on a White House immigration wish list that was released in October but failed to gain traction during negotiations over the border wall. Such proposals are likely to face opposition from moderate Republicans and Democrats going into the midterm elections. But Trump appears intent on ensuring the issues remain at the forefront of public conversation, even though the omnibus was widely seen as the last major legislation likely passed this year.In his Easter weekend tweets and comments, Trump continued to blame Democrats for killing the Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program despite the fact that he was the one who moved to end the program. He also claimed DACA, which has provided temporary protection from deportation and work permits to hundreds of thousands of young people, is luring people to cross the border illegally, even though the program — and most proposals to replace it — have never been open to new arrivals.Trump spent much of the weekend at his Mar-a-Lago club, having meals with his family, watching cable news shows and rubbing elbows with conservative commentators including Fox News host Sean Hannity, according to several club members. Also spotted at the club: championship golfer Dustin Johnson, MyPillow maker Michael J. Lindell, boxing promoter Don King and former New York Police Commissioner Bernie Kerik.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Staffers with Trump over the holiday included policy adviser Stephen Miller, one of the chief architects of the administration's anti-immigration policies, but not his chief of staff John Kelly or his elder daughter, Ivanka, both considered more moderate influences.Trump's past calls to use the "nuclear option" — changing the Senate rules to require a simple majority of 51 votes to override a rule instead of 60— have been repeatedly dismissed by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, who argues Republicans will welcome the filibuster if they return to being the Senate minority. The current split is 51-49 favoring Republicans.Notably, Trump's favored DACA solution mustered only 39 votes in the Senate, meaning it couldn't have passed even if the Senate did approve the changes.Trump's tweets calling on Mexico to halt "caravans" filled with immigrants in the country illegally came after a "Fox & Friends" report early Sunday that featured the leader of the union representing border patrol agents predicting that those in the caravan would create havoc and chaos in the U.S. as they wait for immigration reform.About 1,100 migrants, many from Honduras, have been marching along roadsides and train tracks in the southern Mexican state of Oaxaca.These "Stations of the Cross" migrant caravans have been held in southern Mexico for at least the last five years. They began as short processions of migrants, some dressed in biblical garb and carrying crosses, as an Easter-season protest against the kidnappings, extortion, beatings and killings suffered by many Central American migrants as they cross Mexico.Individuals in the caravans often try to reach the U.S. border but usually not as part of the caravan. The caravans typically don't proceed much farther north than the Gulf coast state of Veracruz. The current march is scheduled to end this month with a conference on migration issues in the central Mexican state of Puebla.___Associated Press writers Elliot Spagat in San Diego; Catherine Lucey, Darlene Superville, Lisa Mascaro, Kevin Freking and Zeke Miller in Washington; and Mark Stevenson in Mexico City contributed to this report.Go to Home Page »SAN FRANCISCO —  U.S. President Donald Trump's administration said on Thursday it would no longer presume that many pregnant women detained by immigration authorities should be released from custody, reversing an Obama-era directive.U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers will make a case by case determination under the new policy. Women in their third trimester will still be released as before, said Philip Miller, an ICE deputy executive associate director."Just like there are men who commit heinous acts violent acts, so too have we had women in custody that commit heinous acts," Miller told reporters on Thursday.The Republican president has vowed to crack down on illegal immigration, including policies on which deportees can remain free during pending cases. Democrats and advocacy groups have criticized the administration for separating migrant from their children when detained.During President Barack Obama's administration, ICE in 2016 announced that pregnant women not subject to mandatory detention should be presumptively released.Miller said on Thursday the new directive was meant to align with a Trump executive order mandating tougher ICE enforcement. Thirty-five pregnant women are in ICE custody, all subject to mandatory detention, he said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Since the policy was implemented in December, Miller said, 506 pregnant women have been detained by ICE. He could not say what happened to each of them, but noted that some likely had been deported while others might have been released in the United States.Michelle Brané, director of the Migrant Rights and Justice Program with the Women's Refugee Commission, criticized the move and said many women entering the United States are pregnant due to rape."Detention is especially traumatic for pregnant women and even more so for victims of rape and gender-based violence," she said in a statement.Miller said pregnant women with asylum claims determined to be based on a "credible fear" of persecution in their home country would still likely be released.The policy change was first reported by The Hill on Thursday, citing internal ICE documents.(Reporting by Dan Levine; Editing by Richard Chang)Go to Home Page »Supported byPHOENIX — Federal agents acting on a tip went to a Phoenix house where they found and detained 34 immigrants believed to have entered the United States, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials said Wednesday.The 34 immigrants taken into custody included 27 Guatemalans, five Mexicans and 2 Hondurans, according to a statement from the agency.News video showed a group of people in handcuffs sitting in a driveway outside the home."We responded to a tip that basically informed us there was a local residence that contained a large group of suspected undocumented immigrants," said Lauren Mack, an agency spokeswoman. "They dismantled a drop house."Human traffickers typically use drop houses to temporarily house immigrants who have been smuggled into the country while "waiting for transportation to another or a pickup or payment made to a smuggler," Mack said.The 34 migrants were detained for administrative immigration violations and processed for removal from the United States, Mack said.There was no information immediately available on how long the immigrants had been in the home, Mack said.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSWASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump declared as "dead" on Monday a program that protects immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children and pressed Congress to "immediately" pass legislation to secure the U.S. border with Mexico.Trump, who has taken a hard line toward immigration, said in September he would terminate the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program introduced by his Democratic predecessor Barack Obama, but gave the Republican-controlled Congress until March 6 to replace it.Congress failed to meet that deadline, but courts have ruled the program can remain in place for now."DACA is dead because the Democrats didn't care or act, and now everyone wants to get onto the DACA bandwagon," the Republican president said in a Twitter post.It was unclear whether Trump, in any new immigration legislation, would support safeguards for people protected by DACA. The White House did not respond to requests for comment on Trump's tweets.Democrats blamed Trump for the tenuous status of a program that shielded hundreds of thousands of immigrants, often called "Dreamers," from deportation and gave them work permits.Dick Durbin, the No. 2 Senate Democrat, said on Twitter that the president created his own crisis."The President is blaming everyone under the sun, but he only has to look in the mirror to find the person who turned down six different bipartisan DACA deals from Congress - a few that included funding for his useless wall," Durbin said.Democrats had offered at one point to fully fund the wall Trump wants along the U.S.-Mexican border but rescinded the offer in January, accusing the president of reneging on elements of a tentative agreement."He walked away - not Democrats," Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein wrote on Twitter."Congress must immediately pass Border Legislation, use Nuclear Option if necessary, to stop the massive inflow of Drugs and People ... Act now Congress, our country is being stolen!" Trump said in another Twitter post.Congress cannot pass any legislation immediately as lawmakers are on their second week of a spring recess, but taking a tough stance on immigration appeals to Trump's conservative base.Senate Republican leaders have ignored previous calls from Trump advocating the so-called nuclear option, which would involve changing Senate rules so Republicans could more easily overcome Democratic opposition to legislation in a chamber they control with a thin majority of 51 out of 100 seats.Cindy Agustin, 28, a DACA recipient and immigration activist in Chicago, said the impasse over the program breeds fear and uncertainty.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."It's frustrating because we're in limbo right now," Agustin added.Trump also reiterated his call for Mexico to stop people from entering the United States, after saying on Sunday he would terminate a major trade accord with Mexico if it does not do more to secure its border with the United States.The United States is currently renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico and Canada.BACK AGAINST THE WALLTrump made building a border wall - and making Mexico pay for it - one of his top campaign pledges when he ran for president in 2016. Mexico has refused to pay.In the past, Trump had said he was open to a deal with congressional Democrats in which they would support funding for the border wall in exchange for protection for the Dreamers.But on Sunday he indicated that time had passed, writing on Twitter: "'Caravans' coming. Republicans must go to Nuclear Option to pass tough laws NOW. NO MORE DACA DEAL!"The mention of a caravan apparently referred to a group of 1,500 men, women and children from Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador who are traveling in a "refugee caravan" organized by the U.S.-based immigration advocacy group Pueblo sin Fronteras, whose Spanish name means People Without Borders.By traveling together, the immigrants hope to protect themselves from the crime and extortion that makes the route through Mexico toward the U.S. border dangerous. They say some but not all of them will seek asylum if they reach the United States.No immigration deal has materialized in the Republican-controlled Congress despite months of efforts. The Senate considered several immigration proposals in February but rejected all of them, including bipartisan bills and legislation tailored to Trump's requirements.In light of Trump's call for the "nuclear option," a spokesman for Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell on Monday noted that Republican senators oppose changing existing rules governing the debate and passage of legislation.Major legislation usually needs a supermajority to pass the Senate. Without 60 votes in support, the Democratic minority can sink a bill.(Additional reporting by Doina Chiacu in Washington and Suzannah Gonzales in Chicago; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe, Will Dunham and Jonathan Oatis)Go to Home Page »BALTIMORE —  A federal grand jury in Maryland has indicted six alleged members of a violent street gang that's been a prime Trump administration target.Six defendants — ranging in age from 19 to 22 — were charged in a nine-count indictment unsealed this week. The alleged members of MS-13, a gang with deep Central American ties, are charged with murder, conspiracy and racketeering.The men, all living in Annapolis, were detained on federal or state criminal charges and their initial court appearances have not yet taken place, according to prosecutors. Their immigration status was not immediately clear.The latest indictments come roughly two weeks after a MS-13 member from another Maryland community was convicted in a federal racketeering conspiracy. Raul Ernesto Landaverde Giron of Silver Spring, just outside of Washington D.C., was found guilty of murder in aid of racketeering and faces a mandatory sentence of life in prison.Following that conviction, U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions said Maryland has "suffered terribly" because of the "uniquely barbaric" gang's criminal activities.In charges announced Thursday, Juan Carlos Sandoval Rodriguez, 20, is accused of luring a victim to a park in Annapolis, where he and other alleged MS-13 members and associates murdered him. Prosecutors believe the March 2016 killing was motivated by a desire to enhance or maintain rank within the gang or gain status as a member.In October 2016, four defendants allegedly attempted to murder two others in Annapolis, largely by stabbing the victims repeatedly.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Last year, Sessions designated MS-13 as a "priority" for the Department of Justice's Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force. That designation directs prosecutors to pursue all legal avenues to target the gang and lets local police agencies tap into federal money to help pay for gang-related investigations.MS-13, or the Mara Salvatrucha, is believed by federal prosecutors to have thousands of members nationwide, primarily immigrants from Central America. It emerged in the 1980s from a stronghold in Los Angeles. But its true rise began after members were deported back to El Salvador in the 1990s.President Donald Trump blames lax U.S. immigration laws for allowing deported members to return to the U.S.Federal authorities say the danger posed by the decades-old street gang has been increasing. During a December stop in Baltimore, Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen described MS-13 as a "threat to our homeland security."Some experts who study gangs believe the overall menace posed by MS-13 has been exaggerated amid the Trump administration's broader immigration crackdown.___Go to Home Page »Supported byWEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — The Latest on President Donald Trumpx (all times local):11:25 a.m.President Donald Trump says Mexico has "got to help us at the border."Trump says a lot of people are coming into the U.S. from Mexico because they want to take advantage of a U.S. program that protects "Dreamer" immigrants from deportation.Trump ended the Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program last year, though a federal judge has ordered the administration to continue renewing permits.Months of negotiations between the White House and lawmakers in both parties have failed to produce a deal to protect the "Dreamers."Trump tweeted about the issue before he attended Easter services at a church near his Palm Beach, Florida, home.Asked about the tweets, Trump blamed Democrats, saying they blew a "great, great chance" to make a deal.___11:10 a.m.President Donald Trump is attending Easter services at an Episcopal church near his home in Palm Beach, Florida.The president was accompanied by his wife, Melania, and daughter Tiffany.He was expected to return to his Mar-a-Lago estate afterward to join other families for annual Easter festivities, including brunch and an Easter egg hunt.Trump has attended the Church of Bethesda-by-the-Sea for years. It's also where he and the first lady got married in 2005.The president opened the religious holiday by tweeting "HAPPY EASTER!" to his many followers. He complained in a follow-up tweet about "ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws" that he says make it harder for Border Patrol agents to do their jobs. He also said a deal to help immigrants known as "Dreamers" was "NO MORE."___10:40 a.m.President Donald Trump says he'll stop Mexico's "cash cow" unless it does more to stop its people from crossing into the U.S.Trump tweets on Easter that Mexico is doing next to "NOTHING" to stop illegal immigration and laughs "at our dumb immigration laws." The president adds that Mexico must "stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL!"The U.S., Canada and Mexico are currently renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement at Trump's insistence. Trump says NAFTA hurts the U.S.Trump promised during the presidential campaign to build a southern border wall to stop illegal immigration and drugs coming in from Mexico, but Congress has frustrated the president by not moving as quickly on the wall as he would like.___10:25 a.m.President Donald Trump is claiming that Border Patrol agents can't do their jobs properly because of "ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws" that allow people caught for being in the country illegally to be released while they await a hearing before a federal immigration judge.Trump tweets on Easter that the situation is "Getting more dangerous" and "Caravans" are coming. He offers no information to back up his claims.Trump also says Republicans in charge of the Senate "must go to Nuclear Option to pass tough laws NOW."Senate rules require 60 votes for legislation in the 100-member Senate. Republicans only control 51 seats, and GOP Senate leaders basically have rejected Trump's calls to change the longstanding rules.Trump also says "NO MORE DACA DEAL!" to help immigrants known as "Dreamers."CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSWASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump on Wednesday extolled a major California county for joining his administration's legal challenge to the state's new limits on how much local police and sheriff's departments support his rigorous deportation policy."My Administration stands in solidarity with the brave citizens in Orange County defending their rights against California's illegal and unconstitutional Sanctuary policies," Trump wrote in a tweet.The Justice Department had earlier welcomed the decision by California's third largest county to join its lawsuit  challenging the "sanctuary state" law, officially known as SB 54, that Democratic-governed California enacted late last year.  The Orange County board of supervisors voted unanimously on Tuesday evening to link arms with the administration.“Orange County’s residents have experienced firsthand the negative effects of SB 54, which mandates releasing criminal aliens back into their communities instead of into the custody of federal immigration authorities," said Justice Department spokesman Devin O'Malley.The law bars local law enforcement from supporting Republican Trump's crackdown on illegal immigration with money, facilities and access to people held in custody. As a presidential candidate in 2016, Trump promised to take a tough stance on immigration and refugees. Since taking office he has zealously pursued his promises to construct a wall along the country's border with Mexico and ramp up deportations.The Justice Department, led by Republican Attorney General Jeff Sessions, has sued cities that officially do not cooperate with federal authorities in order to provide "sanctuary" to immigrants residing within their borders illegally.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In his tweets on Wednesday, Trump said "all citizens have the right to be protected by Federal law and strong borders."Orange County has long been considered the conservative counterpoint to its liberal neighbor to the north, Los Angeles. In recent years it has shown signs of an identity shift and the lawsuit could underline growing social and political rifts in its seaside cities.The county supported Trump's opponent, Hillary Clinton, in the 2016 presidential election, the first time it voted for a Democrat since the Great Depression. Meanwhile, nearly one-third of its residents were born in another country, and people of Hispanic and Asian origins make up more than half the county's population, according to the U.S. Census.(Reporting by Lisa Lambert; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe and Bill Trott)Go to Home Page »PROVIDENCE, R.I. —  A judge has ordered a man accused of war crimes and human rights violations while serving as a paramilitary commander during Guatemala's civil war to return to his native country.The Providence Journal reports that a judge in Boston on Thursday rejected Juan Alicio Samayoa Cabrera's request to remain in the United States. The 67-year-old has lived in Providence, Rhode Island, for 25 years.He's accused by the Guatemalan government of being involved in murders and other crimes against indigenous Mayans in the 1980s.Samayoa's lawyer argues he'll be tortured if he returns to Guatemala. Several supporters had sent letters to the judge urging him to allow Samayoa to stay in the U.S.He has 30 days to decide whether he'll appeal to the Board of Immigration Appeals.___Information from: The Providence Journal, http://www.providencejournal.comGo to Home Page »ORLANDO, Fla. —  A Florida university student is being sent home to China because police say he exhibited "disturbing behavior," and bought a second assault weapon after coming to the attention of police.University of Central Florida Police say they spoke with 26-year-old Wenliang Sun in early February after he made unspecified "unusual statements" to a counselor.The Orlando Sentinel reports Friday he also stopped attending classes, dyed his hair and bought an expensive car. UCF Police Chief Richard Beary said these actions, taken together, raised alarms.Because he was not attending classes, his student visa was revoked and he was taken into custody last month. An immigration judge last week ordered him deported. He remains jailed awaiting deportation.Beary said investigators believe "we just saved a bunch of lives."Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON —  The Trump administration is considering a proposal that would penalize immigrants for accepting almost any form of public benefit, including a popular tax credit.Under a draft proposal first reported by The Washington Post, the Department of Homeland Security would expand the definition of "public benefit" to include the federal earned income tax credit as well as health insurance and housing subsidies.The earned income tax credit benefits low- and moderate-income workers, particularly those with children.Department spokesman Tyler Houlton says the proposed rule was sent to the Office of Management and Budget to be listed in the Federal Register Thursday.He stressed the proposal is "pre-decisional," but that the administration "is committed to enforcing existing immigration law," as well as "respecting taxpayer dollars."Go to Home Page »SAN FRANCISCO —  California Gov. Jerry Brown on Friday pardoned five ex-convicts facing deportation, including two whose families fled the Khmer Rouge regime in Cambodia four decades ago.The pardons don't automatically stop deportation proceedings, but eliminate the state convictions federal authorities based their deportation decisions on. That gives the men's lawyers strong legal arguments before immigration judges to try to prevent the deportations."The pardon does provide enormous benefit to immigrants facing deportation," said Anoop Prasad, an immigration staff attorney at Asian Law Caucus.Brown's intervention for the men — among 56 pardoned — marked the Democratic governor's third consecutive pardon round in which he intervened on behalf of immigrants who were deported or faced deportation because of criminal convictions. Brown has accused the administration of President Donald Trump of "basically going to war" with California over immigration policy.Brown last year signed sanctuary legislation limiting state and local cooperation with federal enforcement of immigration laws. U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions responded with a Department of Justice lawsuit seeking to invalidate three state laws protecting residents living in the country without documentation.Those pardoned Friday included Sokha Chhan and Phann Pheach, both of whom face deportation to Cambodia, a country ruled in the 1970s by the genocidal Khmer Rouge. Chhan was convicted of two counts of misdemeanor domestic violence in 2002 and served 364 days in jail.Pheach was convicted of possessing drugs and obstructing a police officer in 2005 and served six months in jail. His wife said he is in federal custody.Also pardoned was Daniel Maher, who was convicted in 1995 of kidnapping, robbery and being a felon in possession of a firearm and served five years in prison.  Maher is facing deportation to China.Chhan, Pheach and Maher hold permanent U.S. residency but had exhausted all legal avenues to fight deportation, making Brown's pardons for them their last hope to stay in the U.S., Prasad said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."This is a life-changing, enormous event," he said.Also pardoned while facing deportation were Daniel Mena and Francisco Acevedo Alaniz, but their home countries were not immediately known. Mena was convicted in 2003  of possessing illegal drugs. Alaniz served five months in prison for a 1997 auto theft conviction.Brown on Friday also commuted the sentences of 14 others convicted of crimes.The governor is a former Jesuit seminarian and traditionally issues pardons close to major Christian holidays. Easter falls on Sunday.California's longest-serving governor has now issued 1,519 pardons, including 404 during his first two terms as governor from 1975 to 1983.Brown's father, Edmund G. "Pat" Brown issued 467 pardons and 55 commutations, but there have been long stretches of very few in California.From 1991 through 2010, former Govs. Pete Wilson and Gray Davis issued no pardons while Arnold Schwarzenegger handed out just 15.__This story corrects that Pheach was born in Thailand, not Cambodia. It corrects the spelling of one man's last name, Chhan, not Chann.__Associated Press writer Janie Har contributed to this report from San Francisco.Go to Home Page »MEXICO CITY —  President Donald Trump is warning about "caravans" of migrants heading to the U.S., though the caravan of Central American migrants supposedly moving across Mexico toward the border was strikingly immobile Monday.The group of about 1,100 people, most of them Hondurans, had been walking along roadsides and train tracks, but they have stopped to camp out at a sports field in the southern Mexico state of Oaxaca. They are waiting and getting advice on filing for transit or humanitarian visas in Mexico.Many headed to the field's stands to shelter under the awning from the hot afternoon sun. As night fell, the migrants, many with children, lit fires to cook their meager rations.While a group of about a couple of hundred men in the march broke off and hopped a freight train north on Sunday — probably to try to enter the United States — the rest seem unlikely to move until Wednesday or Thursday. Those are probably going to take buses to the last scheduled stop for the caravan, a migrant rights symposium in central Puebla state.Irineo Mujica, director of Pueblo Sin Fronteras, the activist group behind the annual symbolic event, said the caravan would continue only to the city of Puebla southeast of Mexico City, "but not in a massive way." After the symposium, some migrants may continue to Mexico's capital, where it is easier to make an asylum claim. Mujica said about 300 to 400 of the migrants say they have relatives living in Mexico and so may consider staying here at least temporarily.While there were reports Mexico was seeking to end the caravan, it was for all intents and purposes over. The participants were never equipped to march en masse to the U.S. border or anywhere near it. No one was walking late Monday, and Mexican immigration agents showed up offering people help in signing up for various kinds of transit and humanitarian visas. The large number of children present made any move against the camp unlikely.It was all pretty undramatic — especially compared to 2013 and 2014, when migrants jammed Mexican trains heading north — but Trump's angry tweets raised hackles in Mexico."Mexico is doing very little, if not NOTHING, at stopping people from flowing into Mexico through their Southern Border, and then into the U.S. They laugh at our dumb immigration laws. They must stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL!" Trump wrote in one. "With all of the money they make from the U.S., hopefully they will stop people from coming through their country and into ours."Mexico's interior secretary, Alfonso Navarrete Prida, rejected such pressure."We will act with complete sovereignty in enforcing our laws," Navarrete Prida said Monday. "Of course we will act ... to enforce our immigration laws, with no pressure whatsoever from any country whatsoever."In a statement issued late Monday, Mexico's government said about 400 participants in the caravan had already been sent back to their home countries. "Under no circumstances does the Mexican government promote irregular migration," the Interior Ministry statement said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.It noted that Mexico considers the annual caravans to be "a public demonstration that seeks to call attention to the migration phenomenon and the importance of respecting the rights of Central Americans." The U.S. government has been kept fully informed of the situation, it said.The department also said that unlike in previous years of the caravan, "this time Mexican immigration authorities have offered refugee status" to participants who qualify. But it suggested it is not up to Mexico to keep people from going to the U.S. to apply for asylum."It is not this government's responsibility to make immigration decisions for the United States or any other country, so it will be up to the appropriate authorities of the United States to decide whether to authorize the entry of the caravan participants to U.S. territory," it said.Navarette Prida had said earlier that he talked with U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen on Monday. "We agreed to analyze the best means to handle flows of migration, in accordance with each country's laws," Navarrete Prida wrote in his Twitter account.Nielsen later tweeted that their talk was focused specifically on the annual migrant caravan. "Working with Mexican officials to address the yearly illegal alien caravan. Exploring all options," she wrote.The "Stations of the Cross" migrant caravans have been held in southern Mexico for about 10 years. They began as short processions of migrants, some dressed in biblical garb and carrying crosses, as an Easter-season protest against the kidnappings, extortion, beatings and killings suffered by many Central American migrants as they cross Mexico.The organized portions of the caravans usually don't proceed much farther north than the Gulf coast state of Veracruz. Some migrants, moving as individuals or in smaller groups, often take buses or trucks from there to the U.S. border.Mexico routinely stops and deports Central Americans, sometimes in numbers that rival those of the United States. Deportations of foreigners dropped from 176,726 in 2015 to 76,433 in 2017, in part because fewer were believed to have come to Mexico, and more were requesting asylum in Mexico.Mexico granted 3,223 asylum requests made in 2016, and 9,626 requests filed last year are either under review or have been accepted.Go to Home Page »CHICAGO —  A man who had lawful resident status before being wrongfully convicted in Chicago for a 1995 killing was taken into custody Wednesday by immigration authorities.Cook County prosecutors dropped the case against Ricardo Rodriguez this week amid allegations that a discredited Chicago detective manipulated witnesses. They said their office couldn't meet its burden of proof. But instead of Rodriguez being a free man, he was taken into custody by Immigration and Customs Enforcement.The Chicago Tribune reports Rodriguez's conviction stemmed from a drive-by shooting on the city's Northwest Side that left a homeless man dead. The victim, Rodney Kemppainen, did neighborhood jobs for people in exchange for sleeping in garages."Nobody seems to have motive to kill him, including our client," said Tara Thompson, an attorney representing Rodriguez.Rodriguez's lawful resident status was revoked when he was convicted, his attorneys said. Now he faces the possibility of being deported despite being freed. Court records show Rodriguez has two convictions for marijuana possession.Maria Rodriguez-Lopez said her brother was brought to the United States from Mexico as a child and all his family is here.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."It would be a very big injustice for them to do that to not only my mother, but my family, who have tried so hard to prove his innocence all these years," Rodriguez-Lopez said.The Exoneration Project says two witnesses who testified at trial had been unable to describe the murder suspect until Detective Reynaldo Guevara showed them a picture of Rodriguez. One of the witnesses has since claimed he was manipulated by Guevara.Rodriguez did not confess to the killing, and there is no physical evidence linking him to it, the attorneys said.Rodriguez's case is the 10th related to Guevara that has been tossed out since allegations came up that the now-retired detective beat suspects and improperly coerced witnesses.___Information from: Chicago Tribune, http://www.chicagotribune.comGo to Home Page »NAIROBI, Kenya —  The Latest on the deported Kenyan opposition politician (all times local):4:10 p.m.A Kenyan judge has fined the country's interior minister, police chief and permanent secretary for immigration $2,000 each for contempt of court over the deportation of an opposition politician, Miguna Miguna.Justice George Odunga says he cannot jail the officials because even "if they can't obey the orders of this court with such impunity, I do not see how any of their juniors will execute the warrants against them."The judge had ordered the officials to appear in court on Thursday after Miguna was detained in an airport toilet while trying to enter Kenya. The politician has been targeted during lingering tensions over last year's disputed presidential election.Miguna says he was drugged and forcibly deported to Dubai overnight by Kenyan authorities.___11:30 a.m.Lawyers say that early Thursday Kenyan authorities deported an opposition politician whose attempt to enter the country led to him being detained in an airport toilet for more than a day.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Lawyer Cliff Ombeta said that Miguna Miguna, targeted in a Kenyan government crackdown amid lingering election tensions, was sent to Dubai even after a court ordered authorities to release him. Another lawyer, James Orengo, said police at the airport roughed up lawyers and forced them to leave when they tried to serve the court order.Kenyan authorities did not immediately respond, though Kenya's immigration department re-tweeted a post urging the public to ignore a rumor that Miguna had been sedated.The deportation ended the airport drama in which Miguna posted from what he called "Toilet at Terminal 2."Go to Home Page »SACRAMENTO, Calif. —  The U.S. Department of Justice on Wednesday sued California over a law that aims to give the state power to override the sale of federal lands, the latest battle between President Donald Trump and the nation's most populous state.California vowed to fight for the state's first right to purchase federal lands or to arrange for a specific buyer — part of an aggressive effort in the heavily Democratic state to thwart the president's agenda in his first year. Lawmakers who passed the law last year cited concerns that the Trump administration would allow more logging, oil drilling or development on some of the 46 million acres owned by the federal government in California.The Justice Department lawsuit, filed in federal court in Sacramento, argues that the state has no power to interfere with federal land sales, citing the Constitution and the 1850 act of Congress that admitted California to the union."Once again, the California Legislature has enacted an extreme state law attempting to frustrate federal policy," Attorney General Jeff Sessions said in a statement.The federal lawsuit comes less than a month after Sessions visited Sacramento to announce he was suing California over laws that restrict cooperation with federal immigration authorities. The state has sparred with the federal government in and out of court over a wide range of immigration and environmental policies, most recently over vehicle emissions standards and offshore drilling.Sessions decried the mounting litigation between the Justice Department, California and other states asking judges to invalidate pieces of the Trump agenda. In a lengthy statement Monday, he blasted "ideological judging" and "limitless injunctions" that he says allow just one judge to tie up the administration's policies."Government-by-litigation isn't what the American people voted for and attempting to thwart an administration's elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent," Sessions said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.At the request of attorneys general in mostly Democratic states, judges have temporarily blocked Trump's decision to end a program protecting some immigrants living in the country illegally from deportation, withhold law enforcement grants from so-called sanctuary cities and ban transgender troops from the military.Republican states effectively used the courts to thwart some of former President Barack Obama's immigration and environmental priorities, though they failed to invalidate his signature health care law.In the latest lawsuit, the U.S. government says California's law, which took effect Jan. 1, is delaying land sales — even for projects that have been in the works for years — and is depressing their value. The auction of 1.7 acres owned by the U.S. Postal Service was suspended when nobody bid, and a developer looking to purchase property at the now-closed Naval Air Station Alameda has requested a delay, the lawsuit contends.It also cites the sale of Army property east of San Francisco, which the state declined to purchase. The State Lands Commission has requested information about a planned property sale in Santa Barbara County to decide whether to buy first, according to the lawsuit."Yet again, Donald Trump and his administration are attacking our state and our very way of life," Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom, a member of the State Lands Commission and a Democrat running for governor, said in a statement.California Democrats welcomed the latest fight and vowed to defend the law."Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder," California Attorney General Xavier Becerra, a Democrat, said in a statement. "We're prepared, as always, to do what it takes to protect our people, our resources and our values."Go to Home Page »The following statements were posted to the verified Twitter accounts of U.S. President Donald Trump, @realDonaldTrump and @POTUS.The opinions expressed are his own. Reuters has not edited the statements or confirmed their accuracy.@realDonaldTrump :- HAPPY EASTER! [0827 EDT]- Border Patrol Agents are not allowed to properly do their job at the Border because of ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws like Catch & Release. Getting more dangerous. "Caravans" coming. Republicans must go to Nuclear Option to pass tough laws NOW. NO MORE DACA DEAL! [0956 EDT]- Mexico is doing very little, if not NOTHING, at stopping people from flowing into Mexico through their Southern Border, and then into the U.S. They laugh at our dumb immigration laws. They must stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL! [1025 EDT]- These big flows of people are all trying to take advantage of DACA. They want in on the act! [1028 EDT]-- Source link: (http://bit.ly/2jBh4LU) (http://bit.ly/2jpEXYR)(Compiled by Bengaluru bureau)Go to Home Page »PALM BEACH, Fla. —  President Donald Trump on Sunday declared "NO MORE" to a deal to help "Dreamer" immigrants and threatened to pull out of a free trade agreement with Mexico unless it does more to stop people from crossing into the U.S. He claimed they're coming to take advantage of protections granted certain immigrants."NO MORE DACA DEAL!" Trump tweeted one hour after he began the day by wishing his followers a "HAPPY EASTER!"He said Mexico must "stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL!" The U.S., Canada and Mexico are participating in tense negotiations over the North American Free Trade Agreement at Trump's insistence. Trump says NAFTA is bad for the U.S."Mexico has got to help us at the border," Trump, holding his wife's hand, told reporters before the couple attended Easter services at an Episcopal church near his Palm Beach home. "If they're not going to help us at the border, it's a very sad thing between our two countries.""A lot of people are coming in because they want to take advantage of DACA," he added.Former President Barack Obama created the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program to provide temporary protection and work permits to hundreds of thousands of immigrants who are living in the U.S. illegally after being brought here as children. Trump ended the program last year, but gave Congress six months to pass legislation enshrining it. A deal has so far proved elusive and Trump has blamed Democrats.It was not immediately clear what Trump was referring to when he said people are coming to take advantage of the program.The Department of Homeland Security is not issuing new permits, though existing ones can be renewed. The Obama administration allowed signups during a set period of time, and the program is closed to new entrants.Proposed DACA deals crafted by lawmakers and rejected by Trump also were not open to new participants.Trump did not explain what he meant when questioned by reporters as he entered the Church of Bethesda-by-the-Sea with the first lady and his daughter Tiffany. The White House did not immediately respond to a request for clarification.Trump, when addressing reporters briefly before entering the church, again blamed Democrats for failing to protect the "Dreamers.""They had a great chance. The Democrats blew it. They had a great, great chance, but we'll have to take a look because Mexico has got to help us at the border. They flow right through Mexico. They send them into the United States. It can't happen that way anymore."Trump promised during the 2016 presidential campaign to build a Southern border wall to stop illegal immigration and drugs from Mexico, but Congress has frustrated him by not moving as quickly as he wants to provide money for construction.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The president also complained on Twitter that border patrol agents can't do their jobs properly because of "ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws" that allow people caught for being in the country illegally to be released while they await a hearing before a federal immigration judge.Trump tweeted that the situation is "Getting more dangerous" and "Caravans" are coming. He did not offer details to back his comment.The president's tweets came after Fox News' "Fox & Friends" reported early Sunday on what it said is a group of 1,200 immigrants, mostly from Honduras, headed to the U.S. The segment was a follow-up to a report by Buzzfeed News on hundreds of Central Americans making their way through Mexico in hopes that American authorities will grant them asylum or be absent when they attempt to cross the border.The Fox headline was "Caravan of illegal immigrants headed to U.S." The president is known to watch the cable TV program in the morning.Brandon Judd, leader of the union representing border patrol agents, predicted on "Fox & Friends" that those in the caravan would create havoc and chaos in the U.S. as they wait for what he described as immigration reform. Judd also said Congress needs to pass tougher laws, an idea Trump appeared to echo, and create more bed space for immigration authorities to house people.Ohio Gov. John Kasich, a Republican, chided Trump over the tone of the tweets."A true leader preserves & offers hope, doesn't take hope from innocent children who call America home. Remember, today is Easter Sunday," tweeted Ohio Gov. John Kasich, a Trump critic who challenged him for the 2016 Republican presidential nomination.Arizona Republican Sen. Jeff Flake, another Trump foe, urged Congress to take up the fight for Dreamers."There are plenty of lawmakers on both sides of the aisle who stand ready to work with the administration on legislation to protect DACA kids who call America home," he tweeted. "Let's do it."Sunday's church visit was Trump's first public appearance with his wife since CBS' "60 Minutes" aired an interview the previous Sunday with Stormy Daniels, the adult-film star who says she had sex with Trump in 2006, early in his marriage and a few months after Mrs. Trump gave birth to their son. The White House says Trump denies the affair. Mrs. Trump spent most of the past week in Palm Beach with her son.The Trumps returned to Washington later Sunday.___Associated Press writer Kevin Freking in Washington contributed to this report.___Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — The Trump administration took aim on Monday at a land use law passed by California lawmakers last year, the latest salvo in a battle between the two governments that prompted Attorney General Jeff Sessions to complain that the state’s leaders were acting as if they were “above the law.”The Justice Department sued the State of California, Gov. Jerry Brown and the California State Lands Commission, claiming that the law illegally blocks the federal government’s right to buy and sell federal land. The administration asked the federal court for the Eastern District of California to declare the law unconstitutional and block it from being carried out.The feud has pitted Mr. Sessions, a hard-line conservative, against liberal leaders in California who have emerged as vocal opponents of Mr. Trump, including Mr. Brown and Xavier Becerra, the state’s attorney general. For his part, Mr. Trump has dismissed Mr. Brown as Governor “Moonbeam” and labeled him soft on crime.The law at issue gives California the right of first refusal in any sale of public lands, an effort to prevent resource exploitation or development that would hurt the state’s interests. The state would have to raise the money to buy the property at market value, or find a buyer.Justice Department officials said they were prompted to sue after seeing notes that the state put out to federal agencies. The department said in its lawsuit that Congress had given federal agencies the power to control the purchase and sale of federal land, including the parties involved in the deals, the use of the land and when the sales occurs.According to the lawsuit, the California law has interfered with federal land sales at least four times since it was enacted. In Alameda County, the Army had planned to convey 78 acres of land to a developer who will construct facilities, and the Navy is trying to sell property to a land developer. The Veterans Affairs Department is hoping to lease part of its land in Los Angeles to provide housing for veterans. And the Post Office’s plan to auction off a 1.7-acre parcel in Sacramento is at a standstill.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Sessions assailed California’s political leaders in an unusually fiery statement, saying that the fight is distracting Justice Department officials from their work combating illegal gun sales, drug abuse and national security threats. The flurry of legal briefs being filed between the two sides is a waste of taxpayer dollars, he said.“I regret the need to file yet another lawsuit against the State of California today,” Mr. Sessions said, adding, “We are forced to spend our resources to bring these lawsuits against states like California that believe they are above the law.”He said the issue was compounded by the fact that other potential plaintiffs who want to sue the federal government are seeking judges in California whom they view as more favorable to their causes.“Government-by-litigation isn’t what the American people voted for, and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent,” he said.California officials vowed to stand firm.“Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” Mr. Becerra said in a statement. “We’re prepared, as always, to do what it takes to protect our people, our resources and our values.”Benjamin Allen, the state senator who was the lead sponsor of the land use bill, pushed for the legislation after former Representative Jason Chaffetz, Republican of Utah, proposed that the Interior Department sell or dispose of more than three million acres of public land. Mr. Chaffetz later withdrew the bill.“We wanted to make sure that if the government sold off precious public land in California, we would be able to weigh in,” Mr. Allen said. “This law created a procedure for us to do that.”California also has an economic stake in what happens to federal lands. Federally managed lands in the state generated about $3.3 billion a year, much of it from tourism, according to a 2011 study by BBC Research and Consulting.Tensions between California and federal officials have been building since Mr. Trump was elected. State leaders pushed back on the president’s ban on entry by people from some Muslim-majority nations that was unveiled in the first days of his presidency. The state has sued the government over its immigration policies, and local politicians have put aside money to aid undocumented immigrants.Adam Nagourney contributed reporting from New York.See More »Go to Home Page »(Reuters) - U.S. 9th Circuit Court of Appeals Judge Stephen Reinhardt has died after a 37-year career as a liberal icon on the bench during which he struck down California’s same-sex marriage ban and called President Donald Trump's immigration policy inhumane.Reinhardt, 87, died on Thursday of a heart attack while visiting his dermatologist, the United States Ninth Circuit said in a brief statement on its website."He was deeply principled, fiercely passionate about the law and fearless in his decisions. He will be remembered as one of the giants of the federal bench. He had a great life that ended much too soon," said Ninth Circuit Chief Judge Sidney Thomas.Reinhardt was nominated in 1979 by President Jimmy Carter, a Democrat. Known as the "liberal lion," Reinhardt recently wrote the opinion striking down California’s same-sex marriage ban and an opinion on Trump's immigration policy.President Trump has been critical of the federal appeals court based in San Francisco that has ruled against his policies involving his travel ban and sanctuary cities."First the Ninth Circuit rules against the ban & now it hits again on sanctuary cities-both ridiculous rulings. See you in the Supreme Court!," he tweeted on April 26, 2017.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Reinhardt once voted to declare the "Pledge of Allegiance" unconstitutional, a ruling that was overturned. He also ruled that overcrowding in California's prisons was unconstitutional.Many of his rulings favored defendants facing criminal charges, minorities and immigrants and were eventually overturned by the more conservative Supreme Court, the Los Angeles Times reported.Asked once if he was upset with the Supreme Court, Reinhardt responded "not in the slightest!," the paper reported. "If they want to take away rights, that's their privilege. But I'm not going to help them do it," he said.Reinhardt was born in 1931 in New York City. He earned a bachelors degree from Pomona College a degree from Yale Law School in 1954. He served in the U.S. Air Force until 1956 and then went into private practice in Los Angeles until 1980.(Reporting by Brendan O'Brien in Milwaukee; Editing by Matthew Mpoke Bigg)Go to Home Page »DETROIT —  The more than 400 people U.S. prosecutors charged in a health care fraud scheme last year weren't all Muslim nor from a single Midwestern state, despite claims in a story being shared widely online.The story on the site mydeeptruth includes a misleading headline and provides no evidence that all the suspects are Muslim or from Michigan. The article blames Obama administration immigration policies for turning Michigan into what it calls a "Sharia swamp."Last July, federal prosecutors did charge at least 412 people in more than 20 states in connection with health care and opioid fraud scams, including more than 100 health care professionals. Thirty-two Medicare fraud cases were in the Eastern District of Michigan and some of the 96 people charged with defrauding Medicaid were in Michigan. Federal officials included no mention of the religion of the suspects.At the time, U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions called it the "largest health care fraud takedown operation in American history."___This is part of The Associated Press' ongoing effort to fact-check misinformation that is shared widely online, including work with Facebook to identify and reduce the circulation of false stories on the platform.Go to Home Page »LOS ANGELES —  President Donald Trump blasted California Gov. Jerry Brown on Saturday for his pardon of five ex-convicts facing deportation, including two who fled the Khmer Rouge regime in Cambodia with their families four decades ago.In a tweet , Trump referred to Brown as "Moonbeam," referencing a nickname a newspaper columnist coined for him in the 1970s. Trump then listed the ex-convicts' crimes before they were pardoned Friday. They include misdemeanor domestic violence, drug possession, and kidnapping and robbery.Trump wrote: "Is this really what the great people of California want?"A spokesman for Brown responded to a request for comment with more information about the five men but did not directly address Trump's criticism.In a news release about the pardons on Friday, the governor's office said that "those granted pardons all completed their sentences years ago and the majority were convicted of drug-related or other non-violent crimes.""Pardons are not granted unless they are earned," the governor's office said.Brown's pardons marked the third time the Democrat has intervened on behalf of immigrants who were deported or faced deportation over convictions. Brown has accused the Trump administration of "basically going to war" with California over immigration policy.Brown's pardons don't automatically stop deportation proceedings, but eliminate the convictions on which authorities based their deportation.Trump has been criticized for his own pardon, that of former Arizona Sheriff Joe Arpaio, who was convicted last year of a misdemeanor contempt charge for flouting the courts in carrying out his signature immigration patrols.Trump's pardon spared Arpaio from a possible jail sentence. The 85-year-old longtime lawman announced a run for Senate in January.Those pardoned Friday by Brown included Sokha Chhan and Phann Pheach, who face deportation to Cambodia, a country ruled in the 1970s by the genocidal Khmer Rouge. Chhan was convicted of two counts of misdemeanor domestic violence in 2002 and served about a year in jail.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Pheach was convicted of possessing drugs and obstructing a police officer in 2005 and served six months in jail. His wife said he is in federal custody.Also pardoned was Daniel Maher, who served five years in prison stemming from the 1994 armed robbery of a San Jose auto parts store. He was convicted of kidnapping, robbery and being a felon in possession of a firearm in the case.Maher is facing deportation to China, where he has never lived. Maher is from Macau, which became part of China after his family immigrated to California when he was 3.Also pardoned while facing deportation were Daniel Mena and Francisco Acevedo Alaniz. Mena served three years of probation after being convicted of possessing illegal drugs in 2003. Alaniz served five months in prison for a 1997 car theft conviction.The governor is a former Jesuit seminarian and traditionally issues pardons close to major Christian holidays. Easter falls on Sunday.California's longest-serving governor has now issued 1,519 pardons, including 404 during his first two terms as governor from 1975 to 1983.___Associated Press writer Janie Har contributed to this report from San Francisco. Elias reported from San Francisco.Go to Home Page »NAIROBI, Kenya —  A Kenyan opposition politician alleged he was drugged and deported to Dubai early Thursday after his attempt to enter Kenya led to him being detained in an airport toilet for more than a day.Miguna Miguna, targeted in a Kenyan government crackdown amid lingering election tensions, was deported even after a court ordered authorities to release him, lawyer Cliff Ombeta said. Police at the airport roughed up lawyers and forced them to leave when they tried to serve the court order, said another lawyer, James Orengo.Miguna said in a Facebook post that authorities broke into the airport toilet where he had been held and forcibly injected him with a substance and he passed out. He said he regained consciousness when the Emirates flight arrived in Dubai."I will and must return to Kenya as a Kenyan citizen by birth as various courts have ordered," he wrote.There was no immediate response from Kenyan authorities, though Kenya's immigration department retweeted a post calling on the public to ignore a rumor that Miguna had been sedated or drugged.The deportation ended the Nairobi airport drama in which Miguna posted from what he called "Toilet at Terminal 2," saying he had been detained in the "filthy" facilities at the country's main airport with food or access to lawyers.Hours before he was deported, a High Court judge declared Kenya's interior minister, national police chief and permanent secretary for immigration in contempt of court for disregarding an order to immediately release Miguna, said another lawyer, Nelson Havi.Justice George Odunga ordered the officials to show up in court Thursday morning or be jailed. When they failed to appear, the judge fined $2,000 each for contempt of court. He did not order them jailed because even "if they can't obey the orders of this court with such impunity" he doubted that junior officials would act on warrants to arrest them.Miguna had been deported to Canada last month in a crackdown on politicians who attended the mock inauguration of opposition leader Raila Odinga to protest President Uhuru Kenyatta's re-election. A court later ordered that Miguna's Kenyan passport be restored and that he be allowed to return.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.However, when Miguna arrived on Monday at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, plainclothes officers tried to hustle him onto an outbound plane, witnesses said. That failed when he protested.Miguna later posted statements on social media saying he had been "detained inside a tiny and filthy toilet" in one of the terminals. "I have not eaten. I have not taken a shower. I have not been given access to my lawyers, family members and physicians."Miguna could not appear in court as ordered because his entry into the country was still being processed, a lawyer representing Kenya's attorney general, Japheth Mutinda, told the court on Wednesday.The airport confrontation came two weeks after a surprise meeting between opposition leader Odinga and Kenya's president as they announced a new initiative to heal this East African nation after months of sometimes deadly election turmoil.Odinga had argued that Kenyatta lacked legitimacy because his initial Aug. 8 re-election victory was nullified by the Supreme Court over "irregularities and illegalities." The repeat election had a low turnout as Odinga boycotted it, citing a lack of electoral reforms.Miguna was at Odinga's side when he took an oath as the "people's president" at the mock inauguration. The government responded by arresting opposition politicians.___Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON/SAN FRANCISCO —  The U.S. Justice Department sued California over a state law that aims to stop the Trump administration from selling or transferring federal lands to private corporations, hitting the state with yet another legal challenge.The lawsuit, filed in federal court on Monday in Sacramento, the state capital, comes less than a month after the Justice Department brought a legal action targeting three California laws largely aimed at protecting illegal immigrants from deportation."California has once again passed an extreme statute found in no other state to obstruct the federal government, this time by interfering with the conveyance of federal land," the Justice Department's acting No. 3 official, Jesse Panuccio, told reporters.California Attorney General Xavier Becerra said in a statement that his office is prepared to protect the state's resources."Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder," Becerra said.Governor Jerry Brown accused the Trump administration last month of declaring war on the most populous U.S. state after the Justice Department sued over the California immigration laws. A hearing in that case is set for June.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The latest legal action involves California's Senate Bill 50, which was signed into law in October and gives the state right of first refusal over many federal land conveyances.If the California State Lands Commission waives its right of first refusal, it issues a compliance certificate. Without this document, the land transfer cannot be legally recorded in a county property office.The Justice Department in its lawsuit argues that Senate Bill 50 is preempted by federal law.(Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch; Additional reporting by Dan Levine in San Francisco; Editing by Leslie Adler and Steve Orlofsky)Go to Home Page »NAIROBI, Kenya —  Acting in the middle of the night, Kenyan authorities handcuffed and deported an opposition politician whose attempt to enter the country led to him being detained in an airport toilet for more than a day, lawyers said early Thursday.Miguna Miguna, targeted in a Kenyan government crackdown amid lingering election tensions, was sent to Dubai even after a court ordered authorities to release him, lawyer Cliff Ombeta said. Another lawyer, James Orengo, said police at the airport roughed them up and forced them to leave when they tried to serve the court order.There was no immediate response from Kenyan authorities, though Kenya's immigration department retweeted a post calling on the public to ignore a rumor that Miguna had been sedated or drugged.The deportation ended the airport drama in which Miguna posted from what he called "Toilet at Terminal 2," saying he had been detained in the "filthy" facilities at the country's main airport in Nairobi.Hours before he was deported, a High Court judge declared Kenya's interior minister, national police chief and permanent secretary for immigration in contempt of court for disregarding an order to immediately release Miguna, said another lawyer, Nelson Havi. Justice George Odunga ordered the officials to show up in court Thursday morning or be jailed.Miguna had been deported to Canada last month in the crackdown on politicians who attended the mock inauguration of opposition leader Raila Odinga to protest President Uhuru Kenyatta's re-election. A court later ordered that Miguna's Kenyan passport be restored and that he be allowed to return.However, when Miguna arrived on Monday at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, plainclothes officers tried to hustle him onto an outbound plane, witnesses said. That failed when he protested.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Miguna later posted statements on social media saying he had been "detained inside a tiny and filthy toilet" in one of the terminals. "I have not eaten. I have not taken a shower. I have not been given access to my lawyers, family members and physicians."A lawyer representing Kenya's attorney general, Japheth Mutinda, told the court on Wednesday that Miguna could not appear there as ordered because his entry into the country was still being processed.The airport confrontation came two weeks after a surprise meeting between opposition leader Odinga and Kenya's president as they announced a new initiative to heal the East African nation after months of sometimes deadly election turmoil.Odinga had argued that Kenyatta lacked legitimacy because his initial Aug. 8 re-election victory was nullified by the Supreme Court over "irregularities and illegalities." The repeat election had a low turnout as Odinga boycotted it, citing a lack of electoral reforms.Miguna was at Odinga's side when he took an oath as the "people's president" at the mock inauguration. The government responded by arresting opposition politicians.___Go to Home Page »The following statements were posted to the verified Twitter accounts of U.S. President Donald Trump, @realDonaldTrump and @POTUS.The opinions expressed are his own. Reuters has not edited the statements or confirmed their accuracy.@realDonaldTrump :- Mexico has the absolute power not to let these large "Caravans" of people enter their country. They must stop them at their Northern Border, which they can do because their border laws work, not allow them to pass through into our country, which has no effective border laws..... [0702 EDT]- ...Congress must immediately pass Border Legislation, use Nuclear Option if necessary, to stop the massive inflow of Drugs and People. Border Patrol Agents (and ICE) are GREAT, but the weak Dem laws don't allow them to do their job. Act now Congress, our country is being stolen! [0710 EDT]- DACA is dead because the Democrats didn't care or act, and now everyone wants to get onto the DACA bandwagon... No longer works. Must build Wall and secure our borders with proper Border legislation. Democrats want No Borders, hence drugs and crime! [0717 EDT]Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.- Mexico is making a fortune on NAFTA...They have very strong border laws - ours are pathetic. With all of the money they make from the U.S., hopefully they will stop people from coming through their country and into ours, at least until Congress changes our immigration laws! [0908 EDT]- So funny to watch Fake News Networks, among the most dishonest groups of people I have ever dealt with, criticize Sinclair Broadcasting for being biased. Sinclair is far superior to CNN and even more Fake NBC, which is a total joke. [0928 EDT]- Only fools, or worse, are saying that our money losing Post Office makes money with Amazon. THEY LOSE A FORTUNE, and this will be changed. Also, our fully tax paying retailers are closing stores all over the country...not a level playing field! [0935 EDT]-- Source link: (http://bit.ly/2jBh4LU) (http://bit.ly/2jpEXYR)(Compiled by Bengaluru bureau)Go to Home Page »MEXICO CITY —  More than 100 Central American migrants, including dozens of minors, were found crowded inside a sweltering truck without food or water in Mexico en route to the United States, authorities said on Friday.The 136 migrants, from Honduras, Guatemala, El Salvador and Nicaragua, were rescued in the violent southeastern state of Veracruz after 24 hours in temperatures above 100 degrees Fahrenheit (38 Celsius), Mexico's migration institute INM said.Tens of thousands of Central Americans fleeing violence and poverty in their homelands aim to pass through Mexico to the United States every year, often transported by human traffickers who subject them to perilous conditions.More than 800 Central American migrants have been found in truck trailers or safe houses in Mexico so far this year, according to a government document seen by Reuters.Border apprehensions fell when U.S. President Donald Trump took office last year and vowed to stamp out illegal immigration, suggesting fewer crossing attempts, but have picked up in recent months.The migrants in Veracruz were discovered by federal police and migration agents who heard cries for help from within the truck, which had been abandoned near a freeway.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Authorities said they counted 49 minors among the group, 13 of whom were traveling alone and will receive aid to apply for refugee status in Mexico. The adults, as well as the accompanied children, will be sent back to their home countries.Last month, 103 Central Americans, including 36 minors, were rescued from an abandoned truck in the violent northern state of Tamaulipas, where migrants often attempt illegal border crossings.In July, 10 people died after a truck stuffed with more than 100 Guatemalan and Mexican migrants was abandoned in a Texas parking lot.(Reporting by Daina Beth Solomon; Editing by Bill Trott)Go to Home Page »Supported byLettersTo the Editor:The premiere of the revived “Roseanne” on Tuesday night was a real breath of fresh air.To many viewers, the show probably seemed decadent and politically incorrect, but it wasn’t at all. It was a much-needed dose of honesty undeterred by the far left’s efforts to ostracize anyone with opposing opinions, and in direct defiance of the mainstream media’s brutally ceaseless anti-Trump narrative.Finally, something other than the same biased opinions over and over again. Finally, another side of the story.The divisive vitriol and blatant partisanship coming from artists, journalists and tech titans are doing nothing to bridge America’s divide.At least Roseanne Barr is attempting to start a conversation, and based on the ratings it appears to be a conversation many Americans want to have.GARY TAUSTINE, NEW YORKTo the Editor:Kudos to Roxane Gay. Donald Trump ran on a divisive, racist, sexist and xenophobic platform, which still informs his presidency. Roseanne Barr is well aware of that.Enough of whitewashing this under the “I voted for Donald Trump because he talked about jobs,” while children are being separated from their parents under his vile immigration policy.There are lots of other viewing options. Resist!JANIE GROFF, BROOKLYNTo the Editor:Roxane Gay, though seemingly impressed with Roseanne Barr’s critically acclaimed new TV show, lashed out quite harshly at Ms. Barr herself.She missed the point on how the show so aptly chose to navigate and neutralize the political rage on both sides, by confronting and reminding us that heartfelt love and decency resonate more powerfully than anger and bullying.Rather than focusing on the leftover scars from the Trump versus Clinton slugfest, all Americans want their hopes lifted. And the fictitious Roseanne Conner family demonstrated that beautifully.STEVEN COHEN, NEW YORKCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSBERLIN —  Hungarian authorities on Wednesday arrested a German suspected of selling arms via an anti-immigrant website called "Migrants' Fright", the Berlin public prosecutor said on Wednesday.The 34-year-old man ran the website from Hungary to serve German clients from May to November 2016 before it was shut down, the prosecutor's office said.An internet search showed the website offered "first class and discretely delivered" ammunition and guns such as pistols and Kalashnikovs to clients "without troublesome bureaucratic hurdles or annoying paperwork".Hungarian authorities raided two sites in Budapest and the city of Barcs on Wednesday, seizing data and other evidence, the prosecutor's office said, adding that the man was suspected of 193 cases of illegal arms sales.The investigation had been under way since 2016, when German magazine Focus reported that the suspect was operating "Anonymous.Kollektiv", a far-right anti-immigration website that had nearly 2 million followers on Facebook. The page has since been deleted.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.German authorities have sought to crack down on attacks against immigrants which have increased since the influx of over a million mostly Muslim migrants beginning in 2015.There were more than 2,000 attacks against migrants in 2017, ranging from physical assault to serious property damage, the German interior ministry said in February. It was not clear how many of the attacks involved weapons.(Reporting By Riham Alkousaa; Editing by Andrea Shalal and Robin Pomeroy)Go to Home Page »BOSTON —  A Chinese woman pleaded guilty on Monday to cheating on a college entrance exam, becoming the latest person to admit wrongdoing amid U.S. probes into international students who use imposters to gain admission to American universities.Leyi Huang, who had been attending Pennsylvania State University using a student visa, pleaded guilty in federal court in Boston to conspiring to defraud the United States, according to court records.Prosecutors said Huang in March 2016 arranged to have a paid test taker sit in her place and take the TOEFL, the English-language exam used to assess foreign applicants, after she failed to achieve the minimum score needed to attend Penn State.While she faced up to five years in prison, U.S. District Judge Dennis Saylor sentenced Huang, 21, to time served after she agreed to be deported, according to court papers. Her lawyer did not immediately respond to a request for comment.As China has become increasingly affluent, more Chinese students have been enrolling in U.S. colleges and universities, attracted by the prospect of a prestigious American education and good jobs.The number of Chinese students studying in the United States in the 2016-17 academic year rose by 6.8 percent to 350,755, the Institute of International Education reported in November.According to court papers, Huang admitted to authorities that she paid $3,000 to have someone take the TOEFL exam for her and, following instructions from a broker, mailed her Chinese passport to an address in Massachusetts.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.That passport was used by Yue Wang, a Chinese student at Hult International Business School in Cambridge who prosecutors said took the TOEFL on behalf of Huang and at least two other Chinese women seeking to gain admission to U.S. universities.In each case, the women were issued student visas based on their admission to universities, prosecutors said.They said that as a result of the scheme, Huang defrauded the United States by impeding the U.S. Department of Homeland Security in its administration of a program that sets standards for an international student to obtain a visa.Wang, Huang and the two other women were arrested on immigration-related charges in May 2017. Like Huang, they later pleaded guilty and were sentenced to time served after agreeing to be deported.(Reporting by Nate Raymond; Editing by Sandra Maler)Go to Home Page »OMAHA, Neb. —  Investor Warren Buffett's oldest son usually focuses on finding ways for his foundation to help farmers in the developing world or get the most out of the crops he's growing in Illinois. But now Howard Buffett has jumped into the border security debate with a book criticizing President Donald Trump's proposal to build a massive wall along the Mexican border.At first, the subject might seem like an odd fit, but the book is based on Howard Buffett's experience as a philanthropist, an Arizona landowner near the border and a volunteer sheriff's deputy in Arizona and Illinois.Buffett sees a clear connection between our nation's porous border and the drug crimes and addiction he investigates in Decatur, Illinois, as interim sheriff. He's also seen drug trafficking and illegal immigration in Cochise County, Arizona, where he owns a ranch and has served as a volunteer deputy."There is a lot of pain that is affecting many people in this country that's not getting addressed, and it starts at the border," Howard Buffett said.He knows he may not be able to change some people's minds because of the strong views Trump's supporters and detractors hold, but he thinks the best solution is a combination of properly equipped law enforcement, some barriers in places and cooperation with Mexico and other countries."The biggest single impediment is the politics of it," he said.Trump has yet to secure funding to build a wall on the border. The budget deal that Congress recently approved included $1.6 billion for border wall spending, largely to repair existing barriers. Trump had requested $25 billion.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.It's hard to predict whether the book, titled "Our 50-State Border Crisis: How the Mexican Border Fuels the Drug Epidemic Across America" will be influential. Paul Landow, a University of Nebraska at Omaha political science professor and former Democratic strategist, said the book might be helped by Howard Buffett's status as a political outsider and philanthropist."A book like this one from Howard, who is well regarded, does have the opportunity to influence some people," Landow said.In addition to his foundation, where he is giving away part of his father's fortune, Howard Buffett also serves on the board of the Berkshire Hathaway conglomerate his father built.The book will get a boost from being on sale when tens of thousands of Berkshire shareholders attend the annual meeting next month in Omaha, Nebraska. The elder Buffett also praised his son's work."The book is terrific and reflects a combination of knowledge and passion about one of the most important problems of America," Warren Buffett said.Go to Home Page »VATICAN CITY —  Pope Francis on Saturday led an Easter vigil service, baptizing eight adults, including a formerly undocumented Nigerian migrant beggar who became a hero when he disarmed an Italian thief wielding a cleaver.The baptism took place during a long Holy Saturday, or Easter eve, Mass for some 10,000 people in St. Peter's Basilica.The church, the largest in Christendom, was dark at the start of the service before lights were turned on, signifying the passage from darkness to light when the Bible says Jesus rose from the dead.The pope traditionally welcomes new members of the Church during the Saturday night service.This year, among those he baptized was John Ogah, 31, who Italian newspapers last year dubbed the "migrant hero" and held up as an example of bravery and good citizenship.Ogah was begging for change outside a supermarket in a Rome neighborhood where many migrants live last September when he stopped a 37-year-old Italian who had just held up the store with a cleaver and was getting away with about 400 euros, according to the Catholic television station TV2000.The Nigerian, who did not have permission to stay in Italy, held the man down until police arrived and then left the scene, fearing it would be discovered he did not have documents, according to La Repubblica newspaper.Police using footage from surveillance cameras tracked him down and rewarded him by helping him get legal permission to stay in the country.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.An Italian Carabinieri police captain who worked in the neighborhood, Nunzio Carbone, was his godfather, or sponsor, at Saturday's baptism service.Carbone and his fellow policemen helped Ogah get his immigration papers. The Nigerian now works as a stockman at a warehouse for a charity organization.The other newly baptized at the service came from Albania, Peru, Italy and the United States.Francis has made defense of migrants a key part of his papacy.On Sunday, the pope ends Holy See services by celebrating an Easter Mass and then delivers his twice-yearly "Urbi et Orbi" ("to the city and the world") blessing and message from the central balcony of St. Peter's Basilica.(Reporting By Philip Pullella; editing by Jonathan Oatis)Go to Home Page »JERUSALEM —  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said on Monday he was suspending a new agreement with the U.N. refugee agency to relocate thousands of African migrants, as right-wing pressure mounted on him to scrap the deal.Hours after announcing the new arrangement, which would also give thousands of other migrants the right to stay in Israel, Netanyahu posted a message on his Facebook page saying he was putting its implementation on hold until further review.The fate of some 37,000 Africans in Israel has posed a moral dilemma for a state founded as a haven for Jews from persecution and a national home. The right-wing government has been under pressure from its nationalist voter base to expel the migrants.According to the agreement, about 16,250 of about 37,000 African migrants, most of them from Eritrea and Sudan, would be relocated to Western nations while others would be allowed to stay in Israel.At a news conference in Jerusalem, Netanyahu praised the new agreement reached with the U.N. Refugee Agency (UNHCR). But in the hours that followed the announcement he faced growing calls on social and mainstream media to abolish the deal.Some Israelis accused him of caving to left-wing pressure and betraying the residents of south Tel Aviv, a poor part of the city which has attracted the largest migrant community, changing its ethnic makeup and enraging some of its inhabitants who want the migrants out."I am attentive to you, especially to the residents of south Tel Aviv," Netanyahu said on Facebook, adding that he planned to meet with local representatives on Tuesday."In the meantime I am suspending the agreement's implementation and after I meet with the representatives I will bring it forward for further review," Netanyahu said.Implementing the signed agreement was expected to take five years and Netanyahu's backtrack was largely seen in Israel as an attempt to appease his voter base and keep its support at a time of political uncertainty.The four-term prime minister faces one of the greatest challenges to his career yet - he is under police investigation in three different corruption cases. Netanyahu denies any wrongdoing.Naftali Bennett, leader of the Israeli far-right party Jewish Home, a key member of Netanyahu's coalition government and a competitor for Israel's right-wing votes, said on Twitter the agreement would encourage more people to enter the country illegally and called on Netanyahu to overturn it.His calls were soon echoed by members of Netanyahu's own Likud party.PRESSUREThe UNHCR in a statement confirmed an agreement was signed with Israel but did not name the countries that would accept the migrants.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.It said it would "facilitate the departure to third countries to be determined of some 16,000 Eritreans and Sudanese under various programs, including sponsorship, resettlement, family reunion and labor migration schemes, while others will be receiving a suitable legal status in Israel."Netanyahu named Germany, Italy and Canada as examples of countries that would accept the migrants, though German and Italian officials said they had no knowledge of any such agreement.Canada has an arrangement with Israeli authorities to suspend the deportation of individuals who have private sponsorship applications with Canada until they are processed, said Hursh Jaswal, spokesman for Canada's immigration minister.There were 1,845 applications being processed at the end of last year, Jaswal said.A previous plan already underway for a mass deportation of some 20,000 migrants to Rwanda had led to legal challenges in Israel, drew criticism abroad and triggered an emotional public debate among Israelis.In February, Israeli authorities started handing out notices to male African migrants giving them two months to leave for a third country in Africa or risk being put in jail indefinitely.At immigration hearings, migrants were told they could choose to go to Rwanda or Uganda. Both countries have denied having any deal in place with Israel.The U.N.'s refugee agency had urged Israel to reconsider its deportation plan, saying migrants who have relocated to sub-Saharan Africa in the past few years were unsafe and ended up on the perilous migrant trail to Europe, some suffering abuse, torture and even dying on the way.Rights groups had challenged the deportation in Israel's High Court, which on March 15 issued a temporary order that froze its implementation.Netanyahu said on Facebook that Rwanda had in the past few weeks folded to immense pressure and backed out of the deal it had made with Israel to accept expelled migrants, prompting him to seek the new arrangement with the UNHCR.Since 2005 a total of 64,000 Africans had entered Israel illegally over its border with Egypt, although thousands have since left. A fence Israel has built over the past few years along the frontier has largely stemmed the flow.(Additional reporting by Jeffrey Heller in Jerusalem, Philip Pullella in Rome and Joseph Nasr in Berlin; Editing by Hugh Lawson and James Dalgleish)Go to Home Page »SAN DIEGO —  A deported U.S. Army veteran has been granted U.S. citizenship, a move made possible by California Gov. Jerry Brown's pardon of a criminal offense last year.Lawyers for Hector Barajas said the government informed them Thursday their client should attend a naturalization ceremony on April 13 in San Diego. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services confirmed the decision.Barajas, 40, is founder and director of Deported Veterans Support House, which provides housing and other services in Tijuana, Mexico. He said Thursday that he believes his advocacy contributed to his victory and that he planned to commute to Tijuana from the Los Angeles area for at least a year to continue his work. He also plans to find a job and go to school in Los Angeles, while supporting his 11-year-old daughter and her mother."I still can't believe it," Barajas said by phone from Tijuana. "I'm just excited I'll be able to be home with my family."Barajas was convicted in 2002 of shooting at an occupied vehicle and served two years in prison. Brown removed a major obstacle to citizenship by pardoning him last year, noting his distinguished military service and advocacy work.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."I always say we make choices that have consequences," Barajas said of his conviction. "I'm not proud of it. Somebody could have been seriously hurt."Barajas came to the United States from Mexico when he was 7 years old and, after graduating high school, served in the U.S. Army from 1995 to 2001, when he was honorably discharged, according to a federal lawsuit filed in December seeking citizenship.He was a member of the 82nd Airborne Division and received several military accolades.After completing his prison sentence, he was deported in 2004 to Mexico, lacking fluency in Spanish and struggling to find work, according to the lawsuit. He returned to the United States and was deported again in 2010 after police stopped him for a traffic infraction.Some military members are entitled to seek citizenship. The American Civil Liberties Union said Barajas is the second deported veteran pardoned by Brown to be allowed to return to the United States. Marine veteran Marco Chavez was pardoned for cruelty to animals and allowed to return in December.Go to Home Page »ACCRA —  Thousands of people protested in Ghana's capital Accra on Wednesday against the expansion of its defense cooperation with the United States, in a rare public display of opposition to the growing foreign military presence in West Africa.Demonstrators blowing vuvuzelas and beating drums filled Accra's business district, holding placards criticizing a new deal with Washington that they say threatens Ghana's sovereignty."As a right-thinking citizen, I am here to fight for my country. I am against selling our peace and security for $20 million," said Gifty Yankson, a 49-year-old trader."They (the American military) become a curse everywhere they are, and I am not ready to mortgage my security," Yankson said.Police estimated the crowd size at about 3,500 protesters. While officers in riot gear were present, no violence was reported.International powers including the United States and France are looking to extend their presence in the remote Sahel region in particular, where al Qaeda and Islamic State militants have gained a strong foothold in recent years.But Washington is struggling to mend its image in Africa, which was damaged by reports President Donald Trump described African nations as "shithole countries" in a discussion on immigration. The White House later denied he used that language.Under the deal approved by Ghana's parliament last week, the United States will invest around $20 million in training and equipment for the Ghanaian military this year. Opposition lawmakers boycotted the parliamentary vote.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In return, the U.S. military will be allowed to deploy troops and import military equipment tax-free, use an airport runway that meets U.S. standards, and have free access to Ghana's radio spectrum.Ghana has had a long-standing military and trade ties with the United States, but many say the latest agreement was a step too far.Responding to local press reports concerning the deal, the U.S. Embassy in Accra underscored in a statement last week that it had no plans to establish a military base in Ghana.It said the existing 20-year-old cooperation agreement "does not cover the current range and volume of bilateral exercises and assistance."Four elite U.S. soldiers were killed in Niger alongside local troops in an Islamist ambush in October, sparking a fierce debate back home about covert U.S. actions in West Africa.The United States has about 7,200 U.S. Defense Department personnel, including soldiers, stationed in Africa. Over half of those are stationed at Camp Lemonnier in Djibouti, with the remaining personnel scattered across 32 other smaller locations.(Reporting By Kwasi Kpodo; Writing by Edward McAllister; Editing by Joe Bavier and Hugh Lawson)Go to Home Page »ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. —  An attack on 18-year-old Cuban-American and Parkland activist Emma González for not speaking Spanish by an Iowa Republican congressman's campaign staff highlights the pressures U.S.-born Latinos face on language."This is how you look when you claim Cuban heritage yet don't speak Spanish and ignore the fact that your ancestors fled the island when the dictatorship turned Cuba into a prison camp, after removing all weapons from its citizens; hence their right to self defense," read a meme with Gonzalez's photo that was posted on Rep. Steve King's campaign Facebook page.After facing criticism for attacking the teenager, King's campaign team deleted the post.The use of Spanish by U.S. Hispanics has long been a hot political topic. But rarely has a Republican, who has advocated for harsh immigration restrictions, criticized a Latino for not speaking Spanish well. Usually, politicians complain about the proliferation of Spanish in the public sphere and what it means about spikes in immigration.Here's a look at how the use of Spanish language has played a role in defining U.S.-born Latinos:THE ENCOUNTERWhite Southerners fought along bilingual Tejanos at the Alamo during the Texas revolution. But after Texas declared its independence in 1836, Mexican Americans began facing discrimination there, and officials began conducting business in English only.As the U.S. gained territories in the Southwest that formerly belonged to Mexico, white land speculators illegally seized land owned by Mexican Americans despite guarantees outlined in the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo that ended the U.S.-Mexican War.Court proceedings were conducted in English, creating more barriers for Latinos to dispute land grabs and discrimination. Poor, segregated schools also prevented Mexican-American children from obtaining strong English literacy for generations.PHYSICAL ABUSETo halt Latino children from speaking Spanish in school, teachers and principals throughout the Southwest physically punished them for using Spanish.In Los Angeles as late as 1968, high school students were paddled for blurting out Spanish phrases. Bobby Lee Verdugo, 67, remembers being paddled often in front of classmates for speaking Spanish."He tried to make a joke about it when it happened," said Yoli Rios, 67, a classmate who later became his wife. "But I know it was painful."The treatment prompted Verdugo to join the 1968 Los Angeles walkouts that forced the schools to end punishment for speaking Spanish and later introduced bilingual education classes. Students also staged walkouts in Houston.Irene Vasquez, chair of Chicana and Chicano Studies Department at the University of New Mexico, says that activism gave rise to the "English-only" movement in several states.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The conflict over Spanish was evident in Marfa, Texas, during filming of the 1956 movie "Giant," which was directed by George Stevens and starred Liz Taylor and James Dean. Although the movie was about the racism Mexican Americans face, the children who were cast as extras were prevented from speaking Spanish at their real-life segregated school.The teachers made students write Spanish words on paper, placed those papers in a box and buried "Mr. Spanish" in a symbolic funeral in front of Marfa's Blackwell School, according to the 2015 PBS Voces documentary "Children of Giant."IN POLITICSDuring the 1960 presidential election, Jacqueline Kennedy recorded what is believed to be the first Spanish-language television ad targeting U.S. Latinos. She urged Hispanics to vote for her husband, Sen. John F. Kennedy, for president. Viva Kennedy! clubs sprang up throughout the Southwest and helped give Kennedy a tiny edge to defeat Richard Nixon.Since then, there have been prominent Spanish-language ads targeting Latino voters. Texas Republican Sen. John Tower, for example, used a Spanish ballad in a TV ad to win a close re-election by capturing 37 percent of the Hispanic vote.George H.W. Bush featured his Spanish-speaking daughter-in-law in a television commercial during his successful 1988 presidential campaign. Former President George W. Bush used Tejano singer Emilio Navaira in his bid for re-election as Texas governor, and later, spoke Spanish on the campaign trail during his 2000 presidential race.TRENDSMore than 37 million Latinos in the U.S. speak Spanish at home. But recent studies show that the percentage of Hispanics who speak Spanish at home has declined over the last decade.The Pew Research Center found that the percentage dropped from 78 percent to 73 percent.According to Pew, some 89 percent of Hispanic children and 94 percent of Latino Millennials who are born on the U.S. mainland speak English proficiently.When Emma González spoke at the "March for Our Lives" rally Saturday, she galvanized the crowd and television audiences with a speech about gun control, in English. Univision reports she does not speak Spanish.___Go to Home Page »UNION CITY, N.J. —  Eschewing any mention of the corruption scandal that dogged him for years and put his political career in jeopardy, U.S. Sen. Bob Menendez launched his bid for a third term Wednesday, telling a cheering gymnasium full of high school students that "I am here because I am your vote."The 64-year-old New Jersey Democrat is being challenged by Bob Hugin, a Republican political newcomer who formerly headed New Jersey-based pharmaceutical company Celgene.Wednesday's announcement came less than two months after the Department of Justice elected not to retry Menendez on bribery and fraud charges. A trial ended in a hung jury last fall, and Menendez had taken steps to campaign for a third term even in the face of a possible retrial."If you kick a lion when he's down, you'd better be careful when he stands up," said Sen. Cory Booker, the only fellow Democrat to refer to Menendez's travails at Wednesday's kick-off event.Menendez said at a press conference after his mistrial in November that "those who were digging my political grave so they could jump into my seat, I know who you are and I won't forget you."Menendez and Hugin have strong backing in their parties and are expected to win their separate primary contests in June.The seat is one that Democrats hope to hold onto in a year when they are defending 10 Senate seats in states President Donald Trump won in 2016, while Republicans work to preserve their narrow 51-vote majority. Trump lost to Hillary Clinton in New Jersey.Menendez Wednesday assailed Trump's policies on immigration, guns, health care and other issues and said he would fight for New Jerseyans against a president who "divides us, distracts us, but does not deliver for us."Democratic Gov. Phil Murphy called Menendez New Jersey's "indispensable senator" for his work on immigration, storm recovery after Superstorm Sandy and getting federal funds for a new Hudson River rail tunnel.Hugin cast Menendez as untrustworthy and selfish because of the now-dropped corruption case against him when he launched his campaign in February.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Megan Piwowar, a spokeswoman for Hugin, said Wednesday that "corrupt career politician Bob Menendez has failed New Jersey," while Menendez campaign adviser Mike Soliman said the senator "stands up to greedy CEOs."Despite the freshness of the corruption case, Hugin faces a number of hurdles, even with his ability to spend millions of dollars of his own cash to boost his campaign.New Jersey has not elected a Republican to the Senate since 1972, and Democrats have nearly 900,000 more registered voters than Republicans, though unaffiliated voters are the state's biggest voting bloc."We know he can fund himself but what else?" Fairleigh Dickinson University political science professor Peter Woolley said of Hugin. "He is unknown. He is running with an unpopular Republican in the White House. And his Republican base is outnumbered by Democrats. That's already three strikes."A Quinnipiac University poll in March showed Menendez leading Hugin by 17 points. The poll surveyed 1,052 New Jersey voters and had a margin of error of plus or minus 4.2 points. The same poll showed slightly more people had an unfavorable view of Menendez than a favorable one, though 46 percent approved of the job he is doing compared with 39 percent who disapproved.Hugin is a Marine veteran and successful businessman who promises to be an independent voice in Washington."With the right candidate you win elections," said Doug Steinhardt, the Republican state party chairman.In attacking Hugin's business dealings, Democrats cite Celgene's $280 million settlement last year over allegations that it promoted cancer drugs that were not approved by the Food and Drug Administration. Celgene did not admit liability in the agreement.___Catalini reported from Trenton, New Jersey.Go to Home Page »ROME —  Italy on Thursday arrested five men in an operation against suspected supporters of Islamist terrorism, police said, after tracing the phone contacts of the Berlin truck attacker shot in Milan in late 2016.Four of the men, all Tunisians, were arrested on suspicion of conspiring to aid illegal immigration, while a fifth man, who is also believed to be Tunisian, was picked up for allegedly plotting militant attacks, prosecutor Sergio Colaiocco said.While the suspects played no part in the December 2016 truck attack in Berlin that killed 12 people, police discovered them by following the telephone records of Anis Amri, the Tunisian man shot dead near Milan four days after the assault on the Christmas market."No link at all has been found" between the men and the Berlin attack, said Walter Dian, an anti-terrorism police official from Latina, a city south of the capital.Instead, police said Amri may have been heading south to acquire false documents from them.Amri was brought to Italy after being rescued at sea from a migrant boat in February 2011, and he later spent almost four years in prison in Sicily for vandalism, threats and theft. In 2015, he was released and told to leave the country. He went to Germany."There's no concrete evidence that leads us to think a specific attack was planned, but there is enough proof for us to think that this was where things were heading," Colaiocco told reporters, referring to the man arrested on terrorism charges.He had consulted the Internet on how to use a missile launcher, and he had looked into the cost of renting a pick-up truck as well, the prosecutor said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Italy has already expelled other three men tied to Amri on evidence that they had become radicalized Islamists amid a general increase in expulsions over the past year.As part of their operation, police were carrying out searches in Rome, the southern port city of Naples and the central and southern towns of Latina, Viterbo, Caserta and Matera, investigators said.Thursday's sweep is not connected to a series of similar raids this month, police said.On Wednesday anti-terrorism police arrested an Italian citizen of Moroccan origin who they said was an Islamic State sympathizer planning a possible truck attack.Interior Minister Marco Minniti said on Wednesday the security threat to Italy from Islamic State supporters was higher than ever because more foreign fighters were attempting to return to Europe via Italy after the jihadist group suffered defeats in Syria and Iraq.So far this year, 29 foreigners, mostly Muslims, have been expelled from Italy as suspected threats to national security.(Writing by Gavin Jones and Steve Scherer; Editing by Alison Williams)Go to Home Page »LONDON —  Prime Minister Theresa May will likely win a Brexit deal that suits both sides of her warring party and the EU because the alternative does not bear thinking about, the boss of one of Britain's biggest retailers and a prominent Leave supporter said.Exactly one year before Britain's formal withdrawal from the EU on March 29, 2019, Next Chief Executive Simon Wolfson said the prospect of achieving consensus within the Conservative Party and between the EU and the British government was growing.Wolfson has been CEO of clothing retailer Next for 17 years and as a Conservative peer sits in the upper house of Britain's parliament, giving him an insight into the workings of the government and the impact its policies have on consumers."The alternative to a deal you don't like is a situation that's much worse, and that is ultimately likely to keep everyone in check," Wolfson told Reuters in an interview at Next's London office."If you take an extreme Remain view and say: 'I’m just going to wreck the deal', the alternative is we drop out with no deal at all. Even the most die hard Remainer would prefer to have some form of agreement with the EU."Equally if you're a die hard Leaver and say: 'I'm not going to accept anything less than 100 percent independence with 100 percent access to all of the benefits of the EU,' the alternative is the government saying: 'I'm going to ignore you because that's not possible.'""Ultimately we have to have a degree of faith in the process of rational debate."Last week, EU leaders approved a 21-month transition period to help business adapt after Brexit, kicking off possibly the hardest part of the negotiation to agree the bloc's future trading relationship with Britain.However, until a transition deal is legally ratified, probably later this year, many companies are having to plan for the worst and assume that the UK will crash out of the EU in March 2019.SENSIBLEWolfson said the transition period was sensible, particularly as there was "absolutely no way" the detail of Brexit could be agreed by March 2019."The idea of agreeing Heads of Terms (a broad outline of the deal) before going into detail makes complete sense, because in many ways the principles are the hard things to agree to politically and the details are the hard things to agree to practically," he said.Next trades from over 500 stores in the UK and Ireland and around 200 stores overseas. It imports 15-20 percent of the products it sells from the EU, with the rest from Asia. It sells into 70 countries and employs 45,000 in Britain.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Wolfson, lauded by analysts for his reading of the economic runes, said his ideal scenario was that by end-March 2019 there was UK-EU agreement on no tariffs on goods, an agreement for expedited customs and expedited movement of people, and a recognition that there will be some form of borders."Already you can see that on goods there is pretty much broad agreement that there shouldn't be tariffs," he said.Wolfson, whose great grandfather settled in Glasgow in the late 1890s after fleeing the persecution of Jews on the Polish/Lithuanian border, said that while he recognised the value of immigration there needed to be some controls."People think that Brexit was somehow the result of populism, actually in UK politics Brexit has been the antidote to populism and extremism – Brexit has wiped out UKIP," he said, in reference to the pro-Brexit party."All that horrible talk about immigration has pretty much disappeared."JURY'S OUT ON MAYWolfson also stressed the Brexit deal is not going to be the make or break of Britain's economy."It's important but it's not the sum total of things that will make a difference to the British economy over the next 20 years."Things like our approach to planning, infrastructure, transport, the free market and regulation will make as much, if not more, difference," he said.Wolfson said May had done a good job as a consensus builder, conciliator and honest broker with Europe. But he is not convinced she can go on as leader beyond Brexit."I'm not saying that she's not capable of leading us into the next election, but the jury's out."(Editing by Alexandra Hudson)Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON —  Between lobbying, campaign contributions and positioning itself as engaged on policy issues like job creation, Amazon.com has long courted a positive relationship with both the White House and Congress that will help it withstand the latest attack from U.S. President Donald Trump.The company was likely not surprised when Trump criticized it via a post on Twitter on Thursday; he has slammed it in a similar manner previously. Amazon founder Jeff Bezos's decision to purchase The Washington Post has also stoked Trump's ire.Still, Amazon doesn't appear to be left out of the White House since Trump took office; an official from its Washington, D.C. office participated in an event hosted last week by First Lady Melania Trump to discuss cyber safety and technology.Disclosures from Amazon indicate they have lobbied the White House on several topics, including immigration, cyber security and drones.Keeping a cadre of lobbyists has become routine for large companies that risk having their entire business upset by possible congressional or regulatory action.Amazon employs about 15 lobbyists, according to disclosures submitted to the U.S. Senate. Additionally, the company works with about 15 outside lobbying firms who each assign more lobbyists to work on behalf of the company.Amazon has wide exposure to various parts of the government capable of regulating their business operations - from federal aviation rules affecting drones to oversight of anti-trust.The largest online retailer, Amazon is also working aggressively to obtain government contracts to provide services to federal agencies to save data online for them, known as cloud services. Currently, Amazon has a $600 million contract to host data for the Central Intelligence Agency.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The e-commerce giant spent $15.4 million in 2017, up from $12 million a year earlier, on lobbying in Washington.The company’s lobbying effort more than doubled in 2015 compared with prior years, spending $10.5 million.Amazon also maintains a corporate political action committee (PAC), a fund that allows the company to collect political donations from employees and then give donations to lawmakers and other politicians running for office.By the end of February, Amazon's PAC had $1.1 million in cash. The committee spent more than $718,000 in 2017 and the first two months of 2018.The cash spent by Amazon was divided between Republicans and Democrats. For example, in 2017 the PAC gave both the Democratic and Republican congressional committees $15,000.(Reporting by Ginger Gibson)Go to Home Page »NAIROBI —  A Kenyan high court judge found the Interior Minister and the police chief guilty of contempt on Wednesday and told them to appear for sentencing because they failed to obey a court order to release a detained opposition politician.Late on Wednesday evening, Kenyan authorities deported opposition politician Miguna Miguna on an Emirates flight, his lawyer Cliff Ombeta said, two days after police detained him on his return to the country. Kenyan authorities deported Miguna in February saying he had rescinded his citizenship but a court ruled he should be allowed back.The Interior Ministry spokesman could not immediately be reached for comment.The high court ruling, and the deportation in defiance of court orders, mark a significant escalation in a tussle between the judiciary and the government of President Uhuru Kenyatta, which opposition leaders and other critics say fails to respect the authority of the courts in political matters.Miguna's deportation could also strain a rapprochement between opposition leader Raila Odinga and Kenyatta, who won a second term in October at an election in which around 100 people were killed, most of them opposition supporters.Miguna's lawyer said he had no further details of how Miguna was put on the flight, but private Citizen TV channel said he was escorted by security officers.The deportation is in defiance of at least two court orders for police to release Miguna so that he could present himself in court.It could increase pressure in Nairobi's High Court, following Judge George Odunga's ruling against Interior Minister Fred Matiang'i, Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet and the head of immigration.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Odunga said he would sentence the officials on Thursday even if they did not appear in his courtroom, but it was unclear the impact that would have."This matter has reached a level where the judiciary is on trial while top government officials continue to cat walk on its orders," Odunga said in court. Interior ministry spokesman Mwenda Njoka declined to comment because the matter is in court.There was no comment from the police on Wednesday. The interior ministry had denied that Miguna was being held illegally and said he had failed to follow arrival procedures when he landed in Kenya. The politician said in a statement posted on Facebook that he was detained in "a toilet" in an arrivals hall.Kenyatta and Odinga announced on March 9 they would set aside years of acrimony and work together to unite Kenya, which is divided along political and ethnic lines.The surprise announcement promised a fresh start for politics in Kenya, a country that is east Africa's richest economy and a hub for diplomacy, trade and security.(Reporting by Humphrey Malalo; Writing by Maggie Fick; editing by Matthew Mpoke Bigg and Grant McCool)Go to Home Page »ZURICH —  Switzerland revived plans on Wednesday to contribute an extra 1.3 billion Swiss francs ($1.4 billion) for newer European Union members as relations with its biggest trading partner began improving after a spat at the end of last year.Non-EU Switzerland contributes to a wide range of projects in the 13 mostly ex-communist countries that have joined the bloc since 2004, payments that help guarantee its own continued access to the EU's single market.Bern had suggested it might not pay out a second 10-year package after a row erupted in December over Swiss stock exchanges' access to the EU single market.But its cabinet on Wednesday agreed to move ahead with domestic political consultations on the plan which will need parliamentary approval.The government tied the payment to "the status and progress of overall relations between Switzerland and the EU, in particular developments with respect to the EU's recognition of the regulatory equivalence of the Swiss stock exchange".Switzerland had accused the EU of trying to undermine its financial center by granting its stock exchanges only temporary access to the bloc.Diplomats say the mood has brightened since Bern laid out its negotiating position this month on a new treaty Brussels wants that would formalize ties now governed by a patchwork of bilateral sectoral accords.It was the first time that the seven cabinet members from four parties have agreed on a unified platform for talks, a major step forward after their squabbling hampered years of negotiations and frustrated the EU.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.A European Commission spokeswoman said the Swiss contribution was "the natural consequence of Switzerland's access to the internal market".Asked about the potential impact on stock exchanges, she said: "We will consider the situation in the course of this year, notably with regards to progress made on the institutional framework agreement."That treaty would see the Swiss adopt EU laws governing the single market, with the European Court of Justice giving its opinion on disputes on how to interpret single-market rules.This is opposed by the anti-immigration Swiss People's Party, the largest in parliament, which has two cabinet seats.Many Swiss conservatives are wary of giving "foreign judges" such power, and both sides are now talking about setting up arbitration panels to help break the impasse.(Additional reporting by Francesco Guarascio in Brussels; Editing by Gareth Jones and Robin Pomeroy)Go to Home Page »BERLIN —  More babies were born in Germany in 2016 than in any year since 1996, thanks to a booming economy, government incentives and a surge in migration, data showed on Wednesday.Europe's biggest economy and its public pension system are struggling with a rapid aging of the population. In an effort to boost the birth rate, the government has expanded maternity and paternity benefits as well as childcare in the last decade.Chancellor Angela Merkel's decision in 2015 to welcome more than a million refugees, mainly from war zones in Syria and Iraq, has also been described as a demographic game changer.The Federal Statistics Office said 792,131 babies were born in Germany in 2016, up 7 percent on the year before, and the highest number since 1996.Women between 30 and 37, who had fewer children when they were younger, are now catching up due to favorable economic conditions and family incentives, it said.Germany is enjoying an unusually prolonged growth cycle, now in its ninth year, as record employment and ultra-low borrowing costs propel a consumer-led upswing.But while births to German citizens were up 3 percent to around 607,500 babies, the rise was far outstripped by births to citizens of other countries, up a huge 25 percent at 184,660."The number of women from countries with a traditionally high birth rate has risen," the office said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.A breakdown of the data showed the number of Syrian babies nearly quadrupled to 18,500, those with Iraqi mothers doubled to 5,500 and those with Afghan mothers tripled to 5,900.The overall fertility rate - the average number of children a woman has in her lifetime - rose to 1.59 from 1.50 in the previous year, the highest level since 1973.But although the rate among German women edged up slightly to 1.46 children, that among foreign women was more than 50 percent higher at 2.28.Despite the rise in births and immigration, experts still estimate that Germany's working-age population, whose pension contributions support the growing number of retirees, is likely to shrink in the next decade.The average fertility rate in the European Union is 1.60, according to the EU statistics office, Eurostat. France has the highest, with 1.92, and Spain and Italy the lowest, with 1.34.(Reporting by Michael Nienaber; Editing by Kevin Liffey)Go to Home Page »MONTERREY —  Mexican left-wing presidential candidate Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador has an 18-point lead ahead of the July 1 election, according to a poll published on Monday that showed him with a growing advantage at the start of formal campaigning.Lopez Obrador, who launched his campaign on Sunday, holds 38 percent of the vote, according to the poll by Parametria, published by Reuters on Monday ahead of wider distribution. That compared to 35 percent in its previous poll.A Lopez Obrador victory could usher in a Mexican government less accommodating toward the United States, where President Donald Trump has stoked trade tensions with Mexico and aggressively moved to curb immigration.Lopez Obrador has backed the North American Free Trade Agreement, but his plan to review newly issued oil contracts sparked worries he will deter foreign investment.One of the factors that appeared to extend his lead was the expulsion of two independent hopefuls from the ballot for not reaching the required number of signatures.The previous poll is not an exact comparison because it included the now-disqualified candidates.Neither second-place Ricardo Anaya nor third-place Jose Antonio Meade showed any sign of catching up with former Mexico City mayor Lopez Obrador."Lopez Obrador is breaking his ceiling ... he's growing in a way that wasn't expected," Parametria founder Francisco Abundis said.Anaya, running for the right-left "For Mexico in Front" coalition, holds 20 percent of vote preferences, compared with 21 percent in the previous poll.Former finance minister Meade, running for the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI), stood still on 16 percent of the vote, while independent candidate Margarita Zavala rose to 13 percent of the vote from 10 percent previously.The youngest candidate, Anaya, 39, launched his campaign on Thursday, pitching himself as a forward-thinking alternative both to the unpopular PRI and Lopez Obrador's personalized leadership.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Meade's launch on Sunday highlighted his experience in government under two different political parties, unusual in Mexican politics.But the focus was mostly on silver-haired Lopez Obrador, who struck a more nationalistic tone in his speech in the border city of Ciudad Juarez, demanding respect from U.S. President Donald Trump.He also repeated a promise to cancel Mexico City's new $13 billion airport, the country's largest infrastructure project.All major polls show Lopez Obrador far ahead, with most showing his lead growing, although Parametria gives him the widest advantage. One poll in March put Meade in second place, although most show Anaya ahead of him.Attention has turned to which party will hold sway in the Senate and lower house of Congress, with some believing that Lopez Obrador's party, the National Regeneration Movement, could win the biggest share in both.One game-changer could be the first television debate between the candidates on April 22.Thirteen percent of those polled either did not answer, responded that they did not know or could not choose a candidate listed.The poll of 800 people had a margin of error of 3.5 percentage points. It was taken face-to-face from March 23-28, before campaigns officially started.(Reporting by Christine Murray; Editing by Paul Tait)Go to Home Page »MEXICO CITY —  Mexicans tired of graft and chaotic violence look set to reject the party that has governed the country for most of the past century, embracing a global anti-establishment mood by favoring a leftist dissenter in a presidential election.Campaigning formally starts on Friday for the July 1 election and major opinion polls show Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador with a large lead, with the mainstream opposition challenger second and the ruling party candidate far behind.Mexico suffered its worst murder toll on record last year as organized crime ran rampant smuggling drugs, fuel and people, while corruption scandals battered the credibility of President Enrique Pena Nieto's Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI).Those issues rather than the economy are topping Mexicans' concerns going into the campaign, but the outcome could mark a shift away from decades of gradual economic liberalization.While Lopez Obrador now embraces the North American Free Trade Agreement and has softened his opposition to existing private investment in the energy sector, he has flagged a more cautious approach to further opening up the economy.His popularity has been fanned by U.S. President Donald Trump's tough policies on trade and immigration and insults that have angered Mexicans. His government could seek to row back bilateral cooperation that has gathered pace under Pena Nieto."The people want a change, that's why our adversaries are getting really nervous," Lopez Obrador said last week.The centrist PRI has ruled Mexico continuously since 1929, except for a 12-year break when Vicente Fox and his successor led the National Action Party (PAN) to power in 2000 and 2006.Both the PAN and the PRI favored opening the economy to more foreign investment and close ties with the United States.DEEP-ROOTED CORRUPTIONVariously described as a left-winger, a populist and a nationalist, Lopez Obrador quit the PRI in the 1980s and his subsequent political career included a stint as mayor of Mexico City, one of the world's largest metropolises. He has been in permanent opposition since first running for president in 2006.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.He says only he can clean up deep-rooted corruption in the traditional parties. At the same time, he promises to change the constitution if he wins to end immunity for sitting presidents and hold regular referendums on key issues, including one every two years on whether he should continue his six-year term."We Mexicans are now seeing there are definitely two alternatives before us," Tatiana Clouthier, a senior member of the Lopez Obrador campaign said on Thursday: more of the same, or a government that will spread the wealth more widely.In second place is former PAN chief Ricardo Anaya, whose coalition includes center-left parties once allied to Lopez Obrador. He has pitched himself as a modern alternative to the unpopular PRI and to Lopez Obrador's personalized leadership.For many voters, July 1 will be about rejecting either the corruption of the ruling party, or Lopez Obrador, said Ernesto Ruffo, a PAN senator who in 1989 became the first politician to wrest control of a state government from the PRI."This is an election not for, but against," he said.Only Anaya, said Ruffo, offered a vision of the future.The campaign of PRI candidate Jose Antonio Meade, who is not a member of the PRI, admits political parties are deeply mistrusted but says Meade is best placed to capture the mood.Meade says Lopez Obrador's jabs at the private sector, much of which the 64-year-old has excoriated as corrupt, will damage investment sentiment."When there's investment there are jobs," Meade told Mexican radio on Thursday. "When there are jobs we fight poverty."(Additional reporting by Dave Graham; Editing by Dave Graham and Paul Tait)Go to Home Page »BUDAPEST —  A Syrian man who is under U.S. sanctions for assisting the Syrian government received residency status in Hungary under a visa bond program launched by Prime Minister Viktor Orban's government, two Hungarian websites reported.The investigative portals Direkt36 and 444.hu said on Wednesday in a joint report, citing unnamed sources, that Hungary gave a residency permit to Atiya Khoury, who the United States accused in 2016 of paying for fuel procurements for President Bashar al-Assad's government.The "golden visa scheme" launched in 2013, which guarantees temporary residency for at least five years to foreigners buying a Hungarian bond for up to 300,000 euros, helped Hungary raise funds at a time when its credit rating languished in "junk" status. Hungary halted the program last year.Orban's chief of staff Janos Lazar told a regular news conference that national security bodies had screened all those who had bought residency bonds."I'm sure that they screened everyone very thoroughly ... I have no doubt about that," he said when asked repeatedly about the report. He did not address specific details in the report.The websites' allegation that certain Syrians were among those allowed to buy residency comes at a sensitive time for Orban's right-wing government which has been fiercely campaigning against Muslim immigrants ahead of an election on April 8.The websites said it could also be a worrying lapse of national security, if it were confirmed.Orban is seeking a third consecutive term and his party has a lead over the opposition in the opinion polls.The opposition Socialist party urged the government to clarify whether it let "criminals" settle in Hungary, and the opposition Democratic Coalition and LMP parties demanded more clarity on the issue.The Immigration Office did not reply to Reuters questions regarding the identity of the man who the websites said received his status under the bond program.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The government did not respond to Reuters requests for comment. Hungary's intelligence agency did not immediately respond to an email requesting comment.Reuters could not independently verify the websites' report, which did not say when the Syrian man was given the visa.Direkt36 said it received a list of names from an unnamed source which included individuals from several countries, not just Syria, who took part in the visa program. Another source familiar with the administrative process confirmed the man and his relatives received residency permits through the program, Direkt36 said.It highlighted a second Syrian man who Italian authorities suspect took part in an international money-laundering scheme. Direkt36 said he was detained by police on Nov. 28, 2017, in Hungary. Police did not reply to requests for comment.The U.S. Treasury Department said on its website at the time when it imposed sanctions that the man the Hungarian websites identified, alternatively spelled as Atiya Khouri by the U.S. Treasury, operated a firm Moneta Transfer & Exchange and moved cash between Syria, Lebanon, and Russia on behalf of another man, and with authority from the government of Syria,"He paid for fuel procurement for the government of Syria using Moneta Transfer & Exchange and received a commission for these transactions," it added at the time.It was not possible to contact the man.(Reporting by Krisztina Than; Editing by Alison Williams)Go to Home Page »(Reuters) - Campaigning for Mexico's elections officially begins on Friday, with a left-wing candidate who promises to clean up politics and reduce the country's dependence on the United States leading all major opinion polls for the presidency.Here are some facts on the presidential candidates:ANDRES MANUEL LOPEZ OBRADORTwo-time runner up Lopez Obrador, known as AMLO, is running on an anti-corruption platform with his National Regeneration Movement (MORENA) party and he has a double-digit lead in opinion polls.He could usher in a Mexican government less accommodating toward the United States, where President Donald Trump has stoked trade tensions with Mexico and aggressively moved to curb immigration.Variously described as a leftist, a populist and a nationalist, 64 year-old Lopez Obrador has aimed for a moderate tone in this campaign, touting a slogan of "peace and love" and saying he is not looking for revenge against the current government.But Lopez Obrador, a former Mexico City mayor, has also promised to review recently awarded oil contracts and threatened to cancel the capital's new airport, spooking investors.When he narrowly lost his first presidential bid in 2006, he contested the result and organized a sit-in that closed one of the main thoroughfares in Mexico City for weeks, causing chaos. Lopez Obrador says he has changed since then.RICARDO ANAYAThe youngest of the four presidential candidates, Anaya sprung to prominence when he took over presidency of the conservative National Action Party (PAN) in 2015.Born in the small, central state of Queretaro, the 39 year-old career politician helped the party take more than 10 of the country's governorships for the first time in its history.His main proposals include a universal basic income and a international commission to investigate the current government over corruption allegations.Anaya has been criticized for his frequent trips to Atlanta where his wife and three children lived and over a real estate deal the ruling party said was money laundering.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Anaya denied the allegations.He joined the PAN as a law student and held several senior positions in the Queretaro state government between 2002 and 2009 before becoming the president of the federal lower house in 2013.JOSE ANTONIO MEADEAt the end of 2017, in an attempt to clean up its image and as Lopez Obrador took off in opinion polls, the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) chose a non-member as its candidate for the first time.Meade, 49, has served in five different ministerial jobs including minister of foreign affairs, social development, energy and finance under PRI and PAN governments.His critics blame him for a hike in gas prices in 2017 that led to protests across Mexico and spiked inflation, and tie him to corruption accusations at departments he ran. He denies any wrongdoing.MARGARITA ZAVALAZavala is the only independent candidate on the ballot after a scandal over falsified signatures knocked out two of her opponents.The former first lady left the PAN in 2017, in a split with fellow candidate Ricardo Anaya. Mexico City-born Zavala would be Mexico's first ever female president.In the 1990s, Zavala was a lawmaker in the Mexico City assembly and the chief lawyer for the PAN's executive committee. She was later a federal congresswoman.She faces criticism for her husband Felipe Calderon's policy of putting soldiers on the streets when he was president, during a war on drug gangs that saw tens of thousands killed.If elected, Zavala says she would withdraw the troops.(Reporting by Diego Ore; compiled by Christine Murray; editing by Grant McCool)Go to Home Page »(Reuters) - Campaigning for Mexico's elections officially begins on Friday, with a left-wing candidate who promises to clean up politics and reduce the country's dependence on the United States leading all major opinion polls for the presidency.Here are some facts on the presidential candidates:ANDRES MANUEL LOPEZ OBRADORTwo-time runner up Lopez Obrador, known as AMLO, is running on an anti-corruption platform with his National Regeneration Movement (MORENA) party and he has a double-digit lead in opinion polls.He could usher in a Mexican government less accommodating towards the United States, where President Donald Trump has stoked trade tensions with Mexico and aggressively moved to curb immigration.Variously described as a leftist, a populist and a nationalist, 64 year-old Lopez Obrador has aimed for a moderate tone in this campaign, touting a slogan of "peace and love" and saying he is not looking for revenge against the current government.But Lopez Obrador, a former Mexico City mayor, has also promised to review recently awarded oil contracts and threatened to cancel the capital's new airport, spooking investors.When he narrowly lost his first presidential bid in 2006, he contested the result and organised a sit-in that closed one of the main thoroughfares in Mexico City for weeks, causing chaos. Lopez Obrador says he has changed since then.RICARDO ANAYAThe youngest of the four presidential candidates, Anaya sprung to prominence when he took over presidency of the conservative National Action Party (PAN) in 2015.Born in the small, central state of Queretaro, the 39 year-old career politician helped the party take more than 10 of the country's governorships for the first time in its history.His main proposals include a universal basic income and a international commission to investigate the current government over corruption allegations.Anaya has been criticized for his frequent trips to Atlanta where his wife and three children lived and over a real estate deal the ruling party said was money laundering.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Anaya denied the allegations.He joined the PAN as a law student and held several senior positions in the Queretaro state government between 2002 and 2009 before becoming the president of the federal lower house in 2013.JOSE ANTONIO MEADEAt the end of 2017, in an attempt to clean up its image and as Lopez Obrador took off in opinion polls, the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) chose a non-member as its candidate for the first time.Meade, 49, has served in five different ministerial jobs including minister of foreign affairs, social development, energy and finance under PRI and PAN governments.His critics blame him for a hike in gas prices in 2017 that led to protests across Mexico and spiked inflation, and tie him to corruption accusations at departments he ran. He denies any wrongdoing.MARGARITA ZAVALAZavala is the only independent candidate on the ballot after a scandal over falsified signatures knocked out two of her opponents.The former first lady left the PAN in 2017, in a split with fellow candidate Ricardo Anaya. Mexico City-born Zavala would be Mexico's first ever female president.In the 1990s, Zavala was a lawmaker in the Mexico City assembly and the chief lawyer for the PAN's executive committee. She was later a federal congresswoman.She faces criticism for her husband Felipe Calderon's policy of putting soldiers on the streets when he was president, during a war on drug gangs that saw tens of thousands killed.If elected, Zavala says she would withdraw the troops.(Reporting by Diego Ore; compiled by Christine Murray; editing by Grant McCool)Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON/IXTEPEC, Mexico —  President Donald Trump said on Sunday that there will be no deal to legalize the status of young adult immigrants called Dreamers and he said the U.S.-Mexico border is becoming more dangerous.After tweeting a "Happy Easter" message on Twitter, he said: "Border Patrol Agents are not allowed to properly do their job at the Border because of ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws like Catch & Release. Getting more dangerous."'Caravans' coming. Republicans must go to Nuclear Option to pass tough laws NOW. NO MORE DACA DEAL!" he wrote, adding a threat to kill the North American Free Trade Agreement which is being renegotiated with Mexico and Canada.DACA, or Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, is a program created in 2012 under Democratic former President Barack Obama that Trump sought to rescind last autumn.Designed for people brought to the United States as children by parents who were undocumented immigrants, the program shielded them from deportation and gave them work permits.Trump had said he was open to a deal with congressional Democrats who want to protect DACA in exchange for funding to build a U.S.-Mexico border wall, a campaign trail promise.He insisted during his 2016 White House run that Mexico would pay for the wall, something the Mexican government has repeatedly rejected.Mexico's presidential front-runner, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, launched his campaign close to the border on Sunday demanding respect for Mexicans and signaling he may take a harder line toward Trump if he wins the July 1 election."Mexico and its people will not be the piñata of any foreign government," Lopez Obrador said in a speech in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, which borders El Paso, Texas.  "It's not with walls or use of force that you resolve social problems."Whether Trump will stick to his guns on DACA is unclear. Trump last month threatened to veto a spending bill because it did not address the fate of Dreamers and did not fully fund his border wall but he ultimately signed the bill.In the months after Trump took office, apprehensions of illegal crossers along the U.S.- Mexico border dropped from more than 42,400 arrests in January 2017 to a low of around 15,700 in April, according to U.S. Customs and Border Protection data. Since then, the number of arrests has risen and in the first months of 2018 was above Obama administration levels."Mexico has got to help us at the border," the president, who is spending Easter at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida, told reporters on his way into an Easter church service. "A lot of people are coming in because they want to take advantage of DACA. They had a great chance. The Democrats blew it."MIGRANT CARAVANTrump's DACA tweets came after a report on the Fox New Channel's Fox & Friends program, one of his favorites, that a "caravan" of mostly Honduran migrants was crossing Mexico and headed to the United States, "either illegally or by asking for asylum."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.More than 1,000 would-be migrants have passed through Mexico's southern states of Chiapas and Oaxaca in recent days in a so-called "refugee caravan" organized by U.S.-based immigrant advocacy group Pueblo Sin Fronteras.In the town of Ixtepec, more than 1,500 men, women and children from Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala waited in a sweltering warehouse on Saturday, mattresses rolled and bags packed, as local authorities and immigration officials from Mexico's federal government organized 15 buses to take them to their next stop on the long journey north.By traveling together, the immigrants hope to protect themselves from the crime and extortion that makes the route through Mexico dangerous. They say some but not all of them will seek asylum if they reach the United States.Gina Garibo, a member of Pueblo Sin Fronteras traveling with the migrants, said the group would hold a meeting to discuss Trump's statements on Sunday and stressed that the caravan's aim was to protect vulnerable people."The main people here are fleeing criminal violence, political violence, in their country and this allows us to save lives," she said in response to Trump's comments.A guest on Sunday's Fox & Friends show, Brandon Judd, head of the National Border Patrol Council union, said illegal immigrants benefit from the "catch and release" program that Trump referenced in his tweet. Under it, they can be freed while awaiting court hearings if detained in the United States.If recent border crossers do not claim asylum, they can usually be deported quickly. But if they say they fear targeted violence or persecution in their home countries, they can begin the long process of petitioning for asylum in immigration court.Trump said on Twitter on Sunday that Mexico is doing "very little, if not NOTHING," to stop the flow of people across the southern border. "They must stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL!"Mexican Foreign Minister Luis Videgaray said the United States and Mexico work together on migration every day."An inaccurate news report should not serve to question this strong cooperation. Upholding human dignity and rights is not at odds with the rule of law. Happy Easter," he said in a tweet.Mexico deported some 80,000 people in 2017, down from about 160,000 in 2016, official statistics show. The vast majority were from Central American nations. The drop reflects fewer Central Americans crossing the country last year.(Reporting by Valerie Volcovici in Washington and Delphine Schrank in Ixtepec, Mexico; Additional reporting by by Steve Holland in West Palm Beach, Mica Rosenberg in New York, David Lawder in Washington and Lizbeth Diaz in Ciudad Juarez; Editing by Steve Orlofsky and Daniel Wallis)Go to Home Page »Which is exactly what Victor and Axe conspire to do to her once they get wind of her possible participation in the Ice Juice case. (Victor knew she was involved the moment she showed up slightly late for work; his oligarch-sense must have tingled.) To the horror of our hero Bryan Connerty and his F.B.I. ex-flame Terri McCue (Susan Misner), they arrive at the local immigration detention center only to discover that a different woman by the same name is being held captive there. Thanks to a record-keeping mishap, the “right” Maria Gonzalez is already on her way back to Guatemala — helped along, they correctly deduce, by Axe and his minions, in this case a comically sinister duo Axe has hired as his new skulduggery specialists.And if you thought that Attorney General Jock Jeffcoat would be sympathetic to the need to un-deport an “illegal immigrant” back to the United States so she can testify against an extremely wealthy white man, I’ve got a building on Fifth Avenue to sell you.The whole story line is reminiscent of those unforgettably ugly moments on “The Sopranos” when the petty squabbles and turf wars of Tony’s crew spilled over to civilians, leaving an undertipped waiter convulsing in a parking lot with his skull bashed in or a lawn contractor with two broken arms working as an underboss’s slave. And yes, I went there with the “Sopranos” comparison — it’s that good at being that bad.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Jeffcoat is hardly alone in his calculated callousness. Axe Capital faces a major crisis just before the first round of trades overseen by his handpicked successor, Taylor, in the form of a tsunami that hits Brazil and upends a half dozen major industries. In an effort to cut their losses and impress Axe, who’s holding $2 billion in reserve to hedge his bets against his replacement, Taylor spends the episode ordering a series of high-risk moves into various sectors that the disaster has rendered exploitable.It clearly pains Chuck to do this to a man he knows is sincere in his principles, even if they’re principles with which he disagrees. “You need that feeling in your stomach to know you’re alive,” Judge Funt spits back — the implication being that Chuck is a natural-born schemer. “I really think I am sorry,” Rhoades replies. That he needs to think about it at all is a worrying sign, but I buy it, even if Funt doesn’t.Maria Gonzalez, meanwhile, doesn’t have a dad on the bench with friends in high places. You can see where that leaves her.I think Lara Axelrod has it right when she bitterly instructs a friend — er, “friend” — who is considering a divorce not to do it. “You think the attention you receive is deserved,” Lara sneers, before schooling her on the fact that it’s all contingent on her proximity to her husband’s wealth and power. “Now you’re trying to decide whether to be pissed or grateful,” she concludes after her ice-cold lesson in how their world works. “Definitely grateful.”Go to Home Page »Good morning.Questions about excessive force hover over the case. Officers fired 20 times at Mr. Clark, and although the shooting was recorded from a police helicopter and officers’ body cameras, the officers muted their body cameras after they opened fire.In an interview, Mr. Steinberg said he was committed to hearing the community’s concerns, even as tensions persist in Sacramento. Mr. Steinberg’s comments have been edited and condensed.The news and stories that matter to Californians (and anyone else interested in the state). Sign up to get it by email.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.)One of the missing children, Devonte Hart, was the subject of a viral photograph in 2014 that captured him hugging a Portland, Ore., police officer during the nationwide protests over the killing of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Mo.The sheriff said there were no skid marks or indications that the car had tried to stop before falling 100 feet to the edge of the ocean. But he also said the police had found no evidence that it was an “intentional act.”California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.Go to Home Page »Supported byAccording to subsequent studies, those polls substantially underestimated the number of Democratic white working-class voters — many of whom are culturally conservative — and overestimated the white college-educated Democratic electorate, a far more culturally liberal constituency.“The short answer is that the exit polls are wrong,” Matthew DeBell, a senior scholar at Stanford’s Institute for Research in the Social Sciences, emailed me. He continued:In November 2016, 31.9 percent of adult US citizens had college degrees, according to the Current Population Survey. There were 138.8 million votes. To reach 50 percent of all voters, the turnout rate among college grads would have to have been 97 percent. This doesn’t pass the laugh test; no credible study has ever found turnout rates that high.According to Pew, this noncollege white 33 percent makes up a larger bloc of the party’s voters than the 28 percent made up of racial and ethnic minorities without degrees. It is also larger than the 12 percent of Democratic voters made up of racial and ethnic minorities with college degrees.In sum, Pew’s more precise survey methods reveal that when Democrats are broken down by education, race and ethnicity, the white working class is the largest bloc of Democratic voters and substantially larger than the bloc of white college-educated Democratic voters.The Pew study, in contrast, found that the white working class cast 44 percent, or 60.1 million votes, of all the 2016 votes for president — 13.5 million more votes than in the Edison Research exit polls.At the same time, Pew found that whites with college degrees made up 30 percent of the total electorate, not the 37 percent reported in the exit polls. In other words, Pew found that white working-class voters outnumbered white college voters among all voters, while the exit polls reported just the opposite.These numbers have powerful ramifications for both Democrats and Republicans preparing for the 2018 and 2020 elections.The Center for American Progress study by Rob Griffin, Ruy Teixeira and John Halpin foundthat exit polls radically overestimated the share of white college-educated voters and radically underestimated the share of white non-college-educated voters. While the exit polls claimed that white college graduates actually outnumbered non-college-educated white voters at the polls in 2016, 37 to 34 percent, CAP’s data indicate a vastly different story: White college graduates were only about 29 percent of voters, while their non-college-educated counterparts far outdistanced them at 45 percent of voters.Edison exit polls taken on Nov. 8 had Clinton failing to carry college-educated whites, losing them to Trump (49-45). Pew found that she did in fact win these voters, decisively carrying white college grads, 55-38.According to the November exit polls, half of the entire 2016 electorate of all races had college degrees; Pew found that such well-educated voters were a much smaller 37 percent.“We are all circling around the absolute truth, but we are all using methodologies that have their problems,” he said. Asked if he thought Pew raised legitimate questions about the exit polling, especially on the shares of college and noncollege voters, Lenski said that all surveys “have their errors,” adding that there “are sampling errors, nonresponse errors.”Brian Schaffner, a political scientist at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, specializes in political polling. The major problem with exit polls, he wrote in an email, is thatit is very difficult to weight an exit poll to the target population, especially on the night of the election. The reason is that we don’t know yet what the electorate’s demographics will be when the voting is happening. The best that exit pollsters can do is record the approximate age, race, and gender of people who refuse to take the survey (based on what the exit pollster thinks they look like), but this only allows them to weight on three variables, and these factors aren’t even measured very precisely.The problems of the Edison exit polls are widely recognized in the political science community, but rarely discussed in the media. Robert Y. Shapiro, a political scientist at Columbia, noted that thebiases in the exit polls before they are weighted for the actual vote are well known — they have overrepresented Democratic voters and also now also the better educated who are more likely to vote Democratic.Christopher Achen, a political scientist at Princeton, wrote me:The exit polls have traditionally overrepresented college grads, and even more dramatically postgrads, probably because less-educated people are less inclined to respond to the interviewers unless they are particularly enthusiastic about a candidate and want to say so.He added that “when I read the Pew report, I thought it was very likely right.”Ted Brader, a political scientist at the University of Michigan, also emailed:the issue with the education distribution is that exit polls could provide, at best, a representative sample of those who turn out to vote, not a representative sample of the voting eligible US population.Such Election Day polling Brader wrote, is “intended for specific purposes that may not make them even a very good representative sample of those who voted.” Instead, Brader argued, exit polls are “organized principally by news organizations who want to be able to make election night ‘calls’ of winners as soon as they can, and also need to fill the airtime those evenings with commentary by talking heads.” The primary goal of exit polls, thus, “is not to provide a representative portrait of the whole electorate.”Because of their limitations, Brader wrote, “social scientists rarely turn to exit polls to study voting behavior.”Cohn argued that the exit polls overestimated “Trump’s support among well-educated white voters” and thatthere is no question that the exit polls underestimate the number of white working-class voters, especially older ones, by a considerable amount.Cohn observed that errors result from “an odd methodological quirk in exit polling” that “winds up biasing the rest of the survey because the exit polls are weighted to match the actual result of a far less educated country.” The net effect:The exit poll overestimates Republican support among most demographic groups, including well-educated white voters, and it overestimates the number of voters from Democratic-leaning voting blocs, like young, nonwhite and well-educated voters.Assuming this critique of the exit polls is correct, what are the implications for Democrats and Republicans?For Democrats, the Pew and CAP calculations suggest that because the noncollege white vote remains highly significant, the party and its candidates need to prevent any further erosion in this constituency that went so strongly for Trump.The corollary for Republicans is that the party, already behind in the popular vote, cannot afford to suffer continued losses among college-educated white voters, especially college-educated women. Pew found by 2017, a year into the Trump presidency:Voters who have completed college make up a third of all registered voters. And a majority — 58 percent — of all voters with at least a four-year college degree now identifies as Democrats or leans Democratic, the highest share dating back to 1992. Just 36 percent affiliate with the Republican Party or lean toward the G.O.P.This danger has become more acute, according to the Pew study:The share of women identifying as Democrats or leaning Democratic is up 4 percentage points since 2015 and is at one of its highest points since 1992.At the same time, though, Trump appears to be strengthening Republican support among noncollege whites:Voters with no college experience have been moving toward the GOP: 47 percent identify with or lean toward the Republican Party, up from 42 percent in 2014.The Pew and CAP studies received relatively little publicity compared to the massive coverage of the exit polls, raising the question of how much the political community will adjust to the conflicting data.Michael McDonald, a political scientist at the University of Florida who studies the intricacies of polling, is not optimistic:In real time on election night, the exit polls set a narrative, and for a long time there is no other data that changes that narrative, and that narrative solidifies into place and it’s really hard to get past it.Polling that provides an inaccurate picture of the electorate does more than undermine partisan strategy and media analysis. Trevor Tompson, vice president of NORC (formerly the National Opinion Research Center) at the University of Chicago, emailed me:The overrepresentation of college-educated voters, and especially those with postgraduate degrees, has long been a known issue with the in-person exit poll.He then added:The bottom line is we need to have much better data for the health of our democracy.For Democrats, these questions are a matter of competitive survival.Teixeira of the Center for American Politics and William Galston of The Brookings Institution, two longtime Democratic strategists, suggest different but complementary directions in which to take the Democratic Party going forward.“No issue has done more than immigration to feed populism, and finding a sustainable compromise would drain much of the bile from today’s politics,” Galston writes. He continues:Defenders of liberal democracy should acknowledge that controlling borders is a legitimate exercise of sovereignty, and that the appropriate number and type of immigrants is a legitimate subject for debate. Denouncing citizens concerned about immigration as bigots ameliorates neither the substance nor the politics of the problem. There’s nothing illiberal about the view that too many immigrants stress a country’s capacity to absorb them, so that a reduction or even a pause may be in order.she would have carried, with robust margins, the states of Michigan, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, and Iowa, as well as Florida and Ohio. In fact, if Clinton could simply have reduced the shift toward Donald Trump among these voters by one-quarter, she would have won.In Alabama’s special Senate election, Doug Jones, the winning Democrat, would have lost if he had not made substantial inroads with the white working class, Teixeira argued:Without the hefty swing among the white non-college population, particularly women, there is no way Jones would have won the state, or even come close.Teixeira concluded:There is no way around it — if Democrats hope to be competitive in Ohio and similar states in 2020, they must do the hard thing: find a way to reach hearts and minds among white non-college voters.In many respects, these two groups of white voters see the world very differently. For example, 54 percent of college-educated whites think that America’s culture and way of life have improved since the 1950s; 62 percent of white working-class Americans think that it has changed for the worse. Sixty-eight percent of working-class whites, but only 47 percent of college-educated whites, believe that the American way of life needs to be protected against foreign influences. Sixty-six percent of working-class whites, but only 43 percent of college-educated whites, say that discrimination against whites has become as big a problem as discrimination against blacks and other minorities. In a similar vein, 62 percent of working-class whites believe that discrimination against Christians has become as big a problem as discrimination against other groups, a proposition only 38 percent of college educated whites endorse.This brings us to the issue of immigration. By a margin of 52 to 35 percent, college-educated whites affirm that today’s immigrants strengthen our country through their talent and hard work. Conversely, 61 percent of white working-class voters say that immigrants weaken us by taking jobs, housing, and health care. Seventy-one percent of working-class whites think that immigrants mostly hurt the economy by driving down wages, a belief endorsed by only 44 percent of college-educated whites. Fifty-nine percent of working-class whites believe that we should make a serious effort to deport all illegal immigrants back to their home countries; only 33 percent of college-educated whites agree. Fifty-five percent of working-class whites think we should build a wall along our border with Mexico, while 61 percent of whites with BAs or more think we should not. Majorities of working-class whites believe that we should make the entry of Syrian refugees into the United States illegal and temporarily ban the entrance of non-American Muslims into our country; about two-thirds of college-educated whites oppose each of these proposals.Opinions on trade follow a similar pattern. By a narrow margin of 48 to 46 percent, college-educated whites endorse the view that trade agreements are mostly helpful to the United States because they open up overseas markets while 62 percent of working-class whites believe that they are harmful because they send jobs overseas and drive down wages.It is understandable that working-class whites are more worried that they or their families will become victims of violent crime than are whites with more education. After all, they are more likely to live in neighborhoods with higher levels of social disorder and criminal behavior. It is harder to explain why they are also much more likely to believe that their families will fall victim to terrorism. To be sure, homegrown terrorist massacres of recent years have driven home the message that it can happen to anyone, anywhere. We still need to explain why working-class whites have interpreted this message in more personal terms.The most plausible interpretation is that working-class whites are experiencing a pervasive sense of vulnerability. On every front — economic, cultural, personal security — they feel threatened and beleaguered. They seek protection against all the forces they perceive as hostile to their cherished way of life — foreign people, foreign goods, foreign ideas, aided and abetted by a government they no longer believe cares about them. Perhaps this is why fully 60 percent of them are willing to endorse a proposition that in previous periods would be viewed as extreme: the country has gotten so far off track that we need a leader who is prepared to break some rules if that is what it takes to set things right.The bottom line, as the 2016 election amply demonstrated, is that if the Democratic Party does not take the bull by the horns, someone else will.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSWASHINGTON —  The Trump administration's decision to ask people about their citizenship in the 2020 census set off worries among Democrats that immigrants will dodge the survey altogether, diluting political representation for states that tend to vote Democratic and robbing many communities of federal dollars.Not since 1950 has the census collected citizenship data from the whole population, rather than just a population sample, says the Congressional Research Service. The decision to restore the question after decades prompted an immediate lawsuit from California — already tangling with Washington over immigration — and moves by other states with large immigrant populations to engage in a legal fight.The population count, a massive effort taken every 10 years, is far more than an academic exercise. It's required by the Constitution and used to determine the number of seats each state has in the House as well as how federal money is distributed to local communities. Communities and businesses depend on it in deciding where to build schools, hospitals, grocery stores and more.The political stakes of undercounting segments of the population are high.Several states that have slowing population growth or high numbers of immigrants such as California, New York, Illinois, Massachusetts and Ohio are typically at risk of losing U.S. House seats when their congressional districts are redrawn every 10 years — depending on how fully their residents are counted.California struck quickly, with Attorney General Xavier Becerra filing a federal lawsuit Tuesday that seeks to block Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross' decision to add a citizenship question in 2020. Officials from New York and New Jersey, also Democratic-led states, were also planning on leading or participating in lawsuits. Massachusetts signaled interest, too."The census constitutes the backbone for planning how and where our communities will invest taxpayer dollars," Becerra said. "California simply has too much to lose to allow the Trump Administration to botch this important decennial obligation.The Justice Department said in a statement it "looks forward to defending the reinstatement of the citizenship question, which will allow the department to protect the right to vote and ensure free and fair elections for all Americans." The Commerce Department said the benefits of obtaining citizenship information "outweighed the limited potential adverse impacts."Their argument in essence: Enforcing voting rights requires more data on the voting-age population of citizens than current surveys are providing.Democratic lawmakers had been bracing for the decision. A bill sponsored by Rep. Carolyn Maloney, D-N.Y. would block the addition of a citizenship question, or any major design change, unless it has undergone a certain level of research and testing, but it faces dim prospects with no Republicans signing on.House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi said Tuesday that adding such a question "will inject fear and distrust into vulnerable communities and cause traditionally undercounted communities to be even further under-represented, financially excluded and left behind."Some Republican lawmakers hailed the decision on Tuesday.  GOP Sens. Jim Inhofe of Oklahoma, Tom Cotton of Arkansas and Ted Cruz of Texas had sent a letter to the Commerce Department asking Ross to add the question."It is imperative that the data gathered in the census is reliable, given the wide ranging impacts it will have on U.S. policy," Cruz said in a press release issued by the three lawmakers. "A question on citizenship is a reasonable, commonsense addition to the census."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The Census Bureau separately conducts an ongoing survey called the American Community Survey that provides citizenship data on a yearly basis. But it only samples a small portion of the population.Before that, citizenship or related questions were asked of about 1 in 6 households on the census "long form," which has since been retired. The Congressional Research Service said it has been 1950 since all households were asked about citizenship.Alabama Attorney General Steven Marshall said the American Community Survey is so small, with a correspondingly large margin of error, that it is an ineffective tool for understanding lightly populated rural areas of the country."It just makes sense that government has a more accurate record for the census and reinstates the practice of including a citizenship question in the next census," Marshall said.A joint fundraising committee for Trump's re-election campaign and the Republican National Committee highlighted the addition of a citizenship question in a fundraising pitch last week. The pitch said Trump wants the 2020 Census to ask people whether or not they are citizens, and that in another era, this would be common sense."The President wants to know if you're on his side," the solicitation asks.Census counts are taken by mail and by workers walking neighborhoods. The Census Bureau says the 2010 census drew a massive response, with about 74 percent of the households mailing in forms and remaining households counted by workers in neighborhoods.Information is only released publicly in the aggregate, although the government has the details. In 2010, the Obama administration offered assurances that the census data would not be used for immigration enforcement.The Census Bureau states on its website that personal information obtained through its surveys cannot be used against respondents by any government agency or court. And the disclosure by an employee of any information that would personally identify a respondent or family can lead to up to five years in prison or a fine of $250,000, or both.Critics of the decision seemed far more focused Tuesday on the potential for intimidation and an inaccurate count than the prospect that the information could be used to target participants for deportation."I can only see one purpose for why this question is being added," said Arturo Vargas, executive director of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials Educational Fund, an organization that seeks to advance Latino political engagement. It's to "scare Latinos and others from participating in the 2020 Census."___Associated Press writer Amanda Lee Myers contributed to this report from Los Angeles.Go to Home Page »NEW YORK —  A video with dozens of news anchors reading a script about "fake stories" put in stark visual terms what for weeks had largely been an academic debate about media consolidation and the Sinclair Broadcast Group's efforts to promote a consistent message across its stations.The 98-second video, posted on Deadspin Saturday, has already been viewed by millions of people and provoked a tweet by President Donald Trump supporting the corporation on Monday.Sinclair owns nearly 200 local stations and had ordered its anchors to read a statement expressing concern about "the troubling trend of irresponsible, one-sided news stories plaguing the country." Some outlets publish these "fake stories" without checking facts first and some people in the media push their own biases, the statement said.The anchors give no specific examples. Sinclair, whose corporate leadership leans right, uses terminology familiar to Trump and his criticisms of "fake news." In the message, the anchors say they "work very hard to seek the truth and strive to be fair, balanced and factual."Timothy Burke, a video editor at Deadspin, said he read a CNN story last month about the script being sent to local stations and contacted a media monitoring service to collect examples of the statement being read on the air. After receiving more than 50, he fashioned them into a video that shows anchors reading different portions of the text, either simultaneously or one after the other.He posted a "teaser" with a small portion of the video Friday night and it quickly attracted attention when tweeted by a Wisconsin journalism professor. Not wanting to see his work appropriated by someone else, Burke said he rushed to get the full video posted Saturday afternoon. It spread quickly, particularly when tweeted by celebrities like Judd Apatow and Jimmy Kimmel.The video's repetition illustrates Sinclair's reach in a way mere numbers can't, said Jeff Jarvis, a journalism professor at the City University of New York."That's what makes the video so powerful," he said. "It illustrates a story that in some cases can read like a conspiracy theory. You can see by the video that it's not."A Sinclair executive said Monday that he finds it curious that the company would be attacked for asking news people to remind the audience that unsubstantiated stories exist on social media."It is ironic that we would be attacked for messages promoting our journalistic initiative for fair and objective reporting, and for specifically asking the public to hold our newsrooms accountable," said Scott Livingston, Sinclair's senior vice president of news. "Our local stations keep our audiences' trust by staying focused on fact-based reporting and clearly identifying commentary."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.After the story was reported on CNN and MSNBC Monday, Trump jumped to Sinclair's defense."Funny to watch Fake News Networks, among the most dishonest groups of people I have ever dealt with, criticizing Sinclair Broadcasting for being biased," he tweeted. "Sinclair is far superior to CNN and even more Fake NBC, which is a total joke."Meanwhile, CNN's Jim Acosta was criticized by some conservative media outlets on Monday for shouting questions about immigration to Trump while the president and first lady were attending an Easter event on the grounds of the White House.MSNBC's "Morning Joe" did a lengthy segment on Burke's Deadspin video Monday, showing the words being repeated by several anchors. Co-host Mika Brzezinski said she was surprised some of the local anchors didn't refuse to read it."This looks like something we would mock the Russians for doing during the days of Pravda," said co-host Joe Scarborough.Dan Rather's website said that it was "sickening" to watch local journalists being forced to read something that trashes their own profession.Deadspin received a hat tip from HBO's John Oliver, whose "Last Week Tonight" did a lengthy story on Sinclair last season. "Nothing says 'we value independent media' like dozens of reporters forced to repeat the same message over and over again, like members of a brainwashed cult," Oliver said.Burke said he's received a number of emails from people who work at Sinclair stations but he's been too busy at his regular job posting sports videos to look into them."I'm glad it received a large audience," he said.Go to Home Page »Supported byIf you had pulled somebody aside in the mid 1970s and asked him to predict how racially integrated America would be in 2018, he would probably have said: pretty integrated. American schools were integrating very quickly back then. The subject of racial integration was on everybody’s tongue. Young people seemed to be growing up in a very different racial environment, and the rising tide of immigration was making America a more diverse place.Unfortunately, the mid-70s were, by some measures, a kind of a high-water mark. School integration peaked then, and American schools have been resegregating since. Measured by Google Ngram, the phrase “racial integration” was used most frequently then; people have been using the phrase less and less ever since.By the late 1990s, passion for the cause had been lost. As Tamar Jacoby wrote in her 1998 book “Someone Else’s House”: “If integration is still most Americans’ idea of the goal, few of us talk about it any more. The word has a quaint ring today — like ‘gramophone’ or ‘nylons.’ ”Now we seem to have entered a phase of trepidation, or even passive segregation. Race is on everybody’s mind, but are there enough efforts to create intimate bonds across racial lines? Jacoby emphasizes that there are two kinds of integration, objective and subjective. The former is about putting people of different races in the same classroom, office and neighborhood. The latter is about emotional bonds of connection, combining a positive sense of pride in group with an overall sense that we are a “we.”Three-quarters of American whites have no close nonwhite friends. A study from the Public Religion Research Institute found that if you looked at the average white person’s 100 closest friends, you would find that 91 would be white. If you looked at the average black person’s 100 closest friends, 83 of them would be black.Many people support racial integration in the abstract but don’t want to do the things integration would require. Some see integration as a sentimental notion not connected to immediate concerns. Others have accepted the idea that birds of a feather flock together and always will.The big problem with this complacency is that you end up in a racially divided nation with millions of people left in areas of concentrated poverty, falling further behind. Racism is America’s great sin, and if there isn’t continual progress to combat it, the nation becomes ugly to itself.In retrospect, trying to integrate the country through the schools may have been a mistake. Racial integration in schools does produce better student outcomes, which last throughout a lifespan. But parents are super-paranoid about their children. It doesn’t matter how supposedly enlightened a white neighborhood is; if the government brings poor black kids into the school, many parents react with fury, or with moving vans.It might have been better to lead with residential integration. If American parents are unwarrantedly fearful and race-minded about their kids’ environment, they seem to be less so about their own. As William Frey of the Brookings Institution has shown, American neighborhoods have become steadily more integrated. Northern and Midwestern cities like Milwaukee and New York are still very segregated, but Southern and Western cities like Atlanta; Louisville, Ky.; Dallas; and Las Vegas have made strides.Intermarriage rates are also rising. In 1967, 3 percent of Americans married outside their race or ethnicity. Now 17 percent do. Twenty-four percent of black men marry a woman outside their race, as do 12 percent of black women.Even churches are integrating. Martin Luther King Jr. observed that Sunday morning was the most segregated hour in America, but today one in five churchgoers worship in a congregation where no single ethnic or racial group predominates.If we’re going to kick-start another push toward racial integration — which is more or less a moral necessity — maybe the place to start is in the neighborhoods. As the work of the Stanford economist Raj Chetty has emphasized, poverty is very place-oriented. It is the granular conditions of each specific neighborhood that influence whether the residents have a high or low chance of rising and succeeding.A renewed integration agenda would mean building public housing in low poverty areas, eliminating exclusionary zoning laws, and yes, accepting gentrification (a recent U.C.L.A. study finds that gentrification is increasing diversity in District of Columbia public schools). Then schools could be integrated through the back door by using socioeconomic status as a factor in student assignment.The big shift, of course, has to be psychological. Everybody laments how divided America is, but how many of us are part of an organization that lets us meet once a week with others who are very different from ourselves? Integration doesn’t mean losing the essence of what makes each group special; it just means connecting fervently with a fellow American.Roots down/walls down/bridges out.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byOpinionEqually obscured are America’s estimated 3.7 million residents of Arab descent. With neither a racial nor an ethnic category to call their own, they most often opt for a racial designation of “White.” But to count Yemenis and Syrians as generically white is a complicated proposition these days, when whiteness confers power, and men and women from the Arab world are instead the subjects of travel bans and national security debates.While the Trump administration contends the citizenship question will help the Justice Department more “effectively” enforce the Voting Rights Act, what it will actually do is drive millions of Americans, many of them Hispanic, into the shadows. Undocumented residents and even green-card holders may fear that filling out the census could put them at risk of deportation and decide it’s better not to be counted at all.How to conclude otherwise? Reforms to the census focused on millions of Hispanics and Middle Easterners, based on years of research, have been tossed aside. It is not a coincidence that these are two groups President Trump has targeted repeatedly. His administration’s decisions will cost those men and women, in both political and concrete ways.This would have exposed the fact that the category of “Whites” has been artificially inflated, eroding its primacy at a time when whiteness — of the decidedly European strain — has gained new currency. To be white in President Trump’s America is to fundamentally belong. Unlike brownness, which remains at the margins, whiteness is at the center of the American origin story — a powerful narrative about how this country came to be and what made it great (and indeed what might make it great again).Perhaps this is the reason the administration opted to ignore the advice of its own bureau, to keep America’s demographic destiny at bay and, in so doing, to silence the narrative about who we really are.Or maybe it was this: In our present moment of marginalization and deportation, scorn and dismissal, to self-identify as Hispanic or Arab-American is a political act. To be counted is to secure a place in the story of this country. It is to will the American narrative to bend in the direction of change.No wonder this government has taken the tool with which to do so off the table. There is strength in numbers, after all. What better way to undermine that strength than to refuse a count in the first place?Alex Wagner is a contributing editor at The Atlantic, a co-host of “The Circus” on Showtime and the author of the forthcoming book “Futureface: A Family Mystery, an Epic Quest and the Secret to Belonging.”CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSBut the scrutiny of Ms. Salman by law enforcement was not unusual.(Read about Noor Salman’s acquittal.)In major cases, even when the suspects are killed and never brought to trial, law enforcement officials carry out exhaustive inquiries that can lead to charges against family members and acquaintances. The charges are often, but not always, connected to the crimes that provoked the primary investigation.“It’s easy to identify people you can charge,” said William N. Nettles, who was the United States attorney in South Carolina when nine people were killed at a church in Charleston. “The hard part is exercising the discretion and charging the right people.”He added, “You’ve got to look at each case on its merits.”Here is a look at some recent cases that stemmed from investigations of high-profile attacks.After the April 2013 bombing of the Boston Marathon, which killed three people and injured many others, prosecutors brought a rare capital case in Massachusetts, seeking and securing the death penalty against Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the surviving attacker.At least five others were also charged in the sweeping investigation.Another man, Stephen Silva, pleaded guilty to drug and weapons charges; although he had no direct connection to the bombing, he had previously lent Mr. Tsarnaev a handgun, its serial number filed off, that was used by the Tsarnaevs to kill a Massachusetts Institute of Technology police officer.Tamerlan Tsarnaev’s widow, Katherine Russell, was also the subject of investigation and widespread speculation in the news media, but the authorities never brought a case against her.Despite some fears that Stephen Paddock, who opened fire in October on the Las Vegas Strip, had help from a second gunman, law enforcement officials now believe that he acted alone when he killed 58 people and wounded hundreds of others.“I had no way to see into his mind,” he said. “The product that I sold him had absolutely nothing to do with what he did. I’m a vendor. I’m a merchant whose name was released.”Mr. Farook and his wife, Tashfeen Malik, were killed in a gun battle with the police after a pursuit.Go to Home Page »Supported byEven with Congress on break, there was a lot of news this week. From the expulsion of Russian diplomats to a citizenship question on the 2020 census, here are five of the biggest stories in American politics this week, in a nutshell. (And some additional links if you want to read further.)Critics of the change argue that amid a divisive national debate on immigration, many immigrants would be reluctant to return their census questionnaires, resulting in an undercount.Here’s Why an Accurate census Count Is So ImportantIf Census Asks About Citizenship, Some Already Have an Answer: No CommentJustice Dept. Will be Investigated Over Surveillance of Trump Campaign OfficialSessions Rejects Republican Calls for Second Special CounselThe Post-World War II Order is Under Assault From the Powers That Built ItIt’s No Cold War, But Relations With Russia Turn VolatileVeterans Affairs Shake-Up Stirs New Fears of Privatized CareTrump Talks of Bringing Back Rob Porter, Aide Accused of Spousal AbuseHope Hicks Acknowledges She Sometimes Tells White Lies for TrumpWhile the deal represents the kind of one-on-one trade agreement Mr. Trump has pledged, it may have more to do with the upcoming geopolitical challenges involving nuclear discussions with North Korea. The trade pact, which had stalled amid disagreements this year, comes at a time when the United States needs South Korea as an ally.Trade Deals Take Years. Trump Wants to Remake Them in Months.Trump’s China Policy Has a Flaw. It Makes China the Winner.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSupported byOpinion ColumnistWhich would you rather have, a Donald Trump Wall or a Donald Trump Military Parade?No fair saying neither. Trump’s been pushing hard for both, and sooner or later the man has to win something. So if you had to choose, which way would you go?A. Parade, but there should be floats.B. Wall, but maybe around Mar-a-Lago.C. I don’t care as long as he doesn’t bomb anybody.Reasonable answers! And I’ll give you an advance hint of how it’s working out: The wall option is toast.Congress passed its big spending package last week, and the president’s request for wall money was ignored like a burp at a dinner party. All Trump got was $1.6 billion for stuff like fence repair.“I am considering a VETO of the Omnibus Spending Bill” Trump tweeted, complaining that “the BORDER WALL, which is desperately needed for our National Defense, is not fully funded.”“Not fully funded” is a euphemism for “totally ignored.”Twittering Trump also bitterly complained that Congress had not done anything about DACA reform — protection for the people who were brought here illegally as children. That was, indeed, strange on two points. You’d think the Democrats would have tried to do something. But the Dreamers are safe now because of court orders, and their supporters think they’ve got more time to work the problem out.Much stranger was the fact that the guy demanding security for the Dreamers was exactly the president who had killed the DACA protection program in the first place. Why was he getting so worked up?Remember that bipartisan immigration get-together he held back in January? When he begged members of Congress to pass “a bill of love” that would take care of those very same Dreamers? It was a swell moment. After which, the alien floated away, Trump retracted everything and made the famous remark about people from “shithole” countries.During the spending negotiations, maybe the alien entity was taking Trump on a visit to other dimensions. That would explain why the president had absolutely no clue as to what had been going on during the meetings, which had been attended by members of his staff.When it came time for the threatened veto, Trump transformed again, announcing he had to sign the spending plan because it included desperately needed funds for the military. But to prevent anything this dreadful from ever happening in the future, Trump added that he was “calling on Congress to give me a line-item veto for all government spending bills.” After members of the House and Senate finished rolling around on the floor laughing, the world moved forward.Except for Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin, who told a Fox interviewer that he thought it would indeed be a good idea to allow the president to wipe out any pieces of the congressional budget that he didn’t like. When informed that line-item veto power had been declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court, Mnuchin said, “Well, again, Congress could pass a rule, O.K., that allows them to do it.”This is an administration that goes through high-ranking officials like Raisinettes at a movie. And yet Steve Mnuchin is still here.So the spending negotiations were a disaster for the wall warriors. “How about going to Mexico and getting them to pay for it?” said Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer cruelly.We have listened to several conversations between Trump and the president of Mexico on this subject, all of which can be translated into:President of Mexico: “Hahahaha. …”But our chief executive does not give up! Trump came back with a stern tweet announcing that the Defense Department could build his wall, since, thanks to the new budget, “our Military is again rich.”Clearly, there’s an alien entity somewhere in this: Trump threatened to veto the spending package, then announced he’d sign it only because it contained desperately needed funds for the impoverished military. Now, just a couple of days later, he feels that the Pentagon is swimming in so much extra cash it can afford to blow some on building a barrier along a border that has been stable since 1853.The Department of Defense seems about as enthusiastic about paying for the wall as Mexico is. So, what next? Well, the military is going to give Trump that parade he wants. On Veterans Day. It’s billed as a no-tanks-invited celebration of the contributions of veterans from the Revolutionary War to the present. No mention of floats, but I could definitely imagine something nice involving the cast from “Hamilton.”Not a bad trade. Everybody wants to honor veterans, and perhaps some concerned citizens will think about staging parades of their own, pointing out that the most important thing America owes its men and women in uniform is not to get them stuck in unnecessary conflicts.And if anybody can come up with a float celebrating Trump’s bone spurs. …CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSCIUDAD JUAREZ, Mexico —  Mexico's presidential front-runner launched his campaign close to the U.S. border on Sunday, demanding respect for Mexicans hours after U.S. President Donald Trump again threatened to scrap a key trade pact and erect a wall between the countries.Striking a nationalistic tone, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador signalled that if he won the July 1 election, he would be less accommodating towards Trump than the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, which has lagged in opinion polls over its failure to contain violence and corruption."Mexico and its people will not be the piñata of any foreign government," Lopez Obrador said in a speech to thousands of people who jeered and swore at the mention of Trump. The U.S. president is almost universally disliked in Mexico."It's not with walls or use of force that you resolve social problems."Symbolically, the three-month campaign began in Ciudad Juarez, whose namesake, Benito Juarez, was a 19th century Mexican president from indigenous roots whose exiled government resisted a French colonialist intervention from the unruly city that borders El Paso, Texas.Trump on Sunday morning reiterated his threat that has hung over the campaign, to cancel the North American Free Trade Agreement among Mexico, Canada and the United States, tying its future to its efforts to stop migrants going north."Mexico is doing very little, if not NOTHING, at stopping people from flowing into Mexico through their Southern Border," he said in a tweet.Lopez Obrador criticized President Enrique Pena Nieto for export-focused economic policies that he said benefited the few, and promised a strategy to build up Mexico's internal markets.He decried the paltry minimum wage in Mexico, which is less than 90 pesos ($4.96) a day, and the huge salary differences between U.S. and Mexican auto industry workers, challenging Trump's narrative that Mexico has benefited most from NAFTA.While he reaffirmed his backing for the pact, he said talks to renegotiate the agreement should be suspended until after the election, and that any new deal should address wages and immigration."I liked that he said we won't be Trump's servants, nobody has said it like that," Abelardo Ochoa, 32, said at the rally. "We work so hard here to earn well, but you cross the border and it's something else."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.'EXPERIENCE OF SERVING'The ruling-party candidate trailing in third place, former Finance Minister Jose Antonio Meade, launched his own campaign on Sunday at the other end of the country in the southeastern town of Merida, touting his years in government as his strength."I have the experience of serving and getting results for more than 20 years, without scandals. I live off my salary," Meade told a cheering crowd dressed mostly in white.Second-place Ricardo Anaya began campaigning on Friday.Silver-haired Lopez Obrador, a former Mexico City mayor, first ran for president in 2006. He said he would treat Trump's administration with respect but would demand the same for Mexicans.His unconventional, and at times inconsistent, policy stances have sometimes led to comparisons with the U.S. president.The 64-year-old candidate played to his leftist base, attacking the current government and saying he would suspend a $13 billion airport, an important project for Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim, which he says is tainted by corruption.He has promised to "consult the people" on reforms and plans to turn the presidential residence into a cultural centre, sell the presidential plane and cut his salary in half.Sandra Flores, 24, who was at Sunday's rally with her two children, said she and members of her family, including those living in California, supported Lopez Obrador."I voted for the president we have now and honestly I'm not satisfied," she said. "(Lopez Obrador) will be able to stand up against what Trump is doing."(Reporting by Lizbeth Diaz in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico; Writing by Christine Murray; Editing by Frank Jack Daniel, Peter Cooney and Richard Chang)Go to Home Page »Supported by(Reuters) - Mexico's presidential front-runner launches his campaign near the U.S. border on Sunday, amid tension over U.S. President Donald Trump's plan to put a wall between the two countries.As the July 1 election approaches, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador and three other candidates will face off over issues including corruption, drug violence and trade.Here are some facts on the presidential contenders:ANDRES MANUEL LOPEZ OBRADORTwo-time runner-up Lopez Obrador, known as AMLO, is running on an anti-corruption platform with his National Regeneration Movement (MORENA) party and he has a double-digit lead in opinion polls.He could usher in a Mexican government less accommodating toward the United States, where Trump has stoked trade tensions with Mexico and aggressively moved to curb immigration. Trump's pledge to build a wall on the U.S.-Mexican border was a main theme of his 2016 U.S. presidential campaign.Variously described as a leftist, a populist and a nationalist, Lopez Obrador, 64, has aimed for a moderate tone in this campaign. His slogan is "peace and love," and he says he is not looking for revenge against the current government.But the former Mexico City mayor has also promised to review recently awarded oil contracts and threatened to cancel the capital's new airport, spooking investors.When he narrowly lost his first presidential bid in 2006, he contested the result and organised a sit-in that closed one of the main thoroughfares in Mexico City for weeks, causing chaos. Lopez Obrador says he has changed since then.RICARDO ANAYAThe youngest of the four presidential candidates, Anaya sprung to prominence when he took over the presidency of the conservative National Action Party (PAN) in 2015.Born in the small, central state of Queretaro, the 39-year-old career politician helped the party take more than 10 of the country's governorships for the first time in its history.His main proposals include a universal minimum income and an international commission to investigate the current government over corruption allegations.Anaya has been criticized for his frequent trips to Atlanta, where his wife and three children have lived, and over a real estate deal the ruling party said was money laundering.Anaya denied the allegations.He joined the PAN as a law student and held several senior positions in the Queretaro state government between 2002 and 2009 before becoming president of the federal lower house in 2013.JOSE ANTONIO MEADEAt the end of 2017, in an attempt to clean up its image and as Lopez Obrador took off in opinion polls, the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) chose a non-member as its candidate for the first time.Meade, 49, has served in five different ministerial jobs, including minister of foreign affairs, social development, energy and finance, under PRI and PAN governments.His critics blame him for a hike in gasoline prices in 2017 that led to protests across Mexico and spiked inflation, and tie him to corruption accusations at departments he ran. He denies any wrongdoing.MARGARITA ZAVALAZavala is the only independent candidate on the ballot after a scandal over falsified signatures knocked out two of her opponents.The former first lady left the PAN in 2017, in a split with fellow candidate Ricardo Anaya. Mexico City-born Zavala would be Mexico's first-ever female president.In the 1990s, Zavala was a lawmaker in the Mexico City assembly and the chief lawyer for the PAN's executive committee. She was later a federal congresswoman.She faces criticism for her husband Felipe Calderon's policy of putting soldiers on the streets when he was president, during a war on drug gangs that saw tens of thousands killed.If elected, Zavala says she would withdraw the troops.(Reporting by Mexico City Newsroom; editing by Jonathan Oatis)CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSSAN FRANCISCO — Two days after Donald J. Trump won the 2016 election, executives at Google consoled their employees in an all-staff meeting broadcast around the world.“There is a lot of fear within Google,” said Sundar Pichai, the company’s chief executive, according to a video of the meeting viewed by The New York Times. When asked by an employee if there was any silver lining to Mr. Trump’s election, the Google co-founder Sergey Brin said, “Boy, that’s a really tough one right now.” Ruth Porat, the finance chief, said Mr. Trump’s victory felt “like a ton of bricks dropped on my chest.” Then she instructed members of the audience to hug the person next to them.Yet quietly, the tech industry has warmed to the White House, especially as companies including Alphabet, Apple and Intel have benefited from the Trump administration’s policies.Mr. Trump “has been great for business and really, really good for tech,” said Gary Shapiro, who leads the Consumer Technology Association, the largest American tech trade group, with more than 2,200 members including Apple, Google, Amazon and Facebook.Mr. Shapiro said that he had voted for Hillary Clinton, Mr. Trump’s opponent, in 2016, but that he and many tech executives had come around on Mr. Trump. While they disagree with him on immigration and the environment, they have found areas where their interests align, like deregulation and investment in internet infrastructure.Mr. Trump himself has taken to naming tech companies he says are on his side.In fact, Apple has no plans to build a plant in the United States. The company is uneasy with Mr. Trump’s invoking it to signify how his policies are working, according to a person close to Apple who was not authorized to speak publicly. Apple has not, however, publicly corrected the president.Dean Garfield, head of the Information Technology Industry Council, a 102-year-old advocacy group that represents the biggest tech firms, said his members walked a tightrope, supporting and opposing the president on different issues. Lately, he said, “we have reached balance in the tightrope.”The equilibrium marks a turnabout from what had been a testy relationship between Mr. Trump and the tech sector. On the campaign trail in 2016, Mr. Trump was so critical of tech companies that Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, once joked he might send Mr. Trump to space in a rocket.Most of the tally was previously planned spending with American suppliers and a $38 billion tax payment on its overseas cash. But Apple also said it planned to hire 20,000 new workers, invest in new data centers and another domestic campus, and increase a fund for innovative American manufacturers to $5 billion from $1 billion. It also gave employees $2,500 bonuses.The president was quick to tweet the news.Messages to the account were not returned. Google declined to comment.Two days later, Facebook’s policy chief, Joel Kaplan, distanced the company from Mr. Goldman’s comments.“The special counsel has issued its indictments, and nothing we found contradicts their conclusions,” he said in a statement. “Any suggestion otherwise is wrong.”Kitty Bennett contributed research from Washington.Go to Home Page »MEXICO CITY —  Faced with tough questions last week from six journalists on live television, Mexican presidential front-runner Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador leaned back in his chair with a twinkle in his eye, laughing off criticism, at times making fun of himself.On the street the next day, the leftist's tone changed when he castigated Mexico's business elite, accusing them of corruption in the $13 billion construction of a new Mexico City airport he threatens to scrap if elected.The peremptory dismissal of the bosses jarred with the more moderate image Lopez Obrador has cultivated to build a strong lead ahead of the July 1 vote.The outburst deflected attention from his opponents' woes and undermined the vision of a smiling, avuncular patriot he has sought to project. Adversaries jumped on the opportunity to paint an old portrait of him as a short-tempered radical and divisive nationalist who cannot be trusted with the economy.A Lopez Obrador victory could usher in a Mexican government less accommodating toward the United States, where president Donald Trump has stoked trade tensions with Mexico and aggressively moved to curb immigration.Lopez Obrador has backed the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), but his plan to review newly issued oil contracts sparked worries he will deter foreign investment.Critics and supporters alike say the 64-year-old has stuck to his principles in the dozen years he has spent pursuing the presidency. Meanwhile, his main rivals have entered government and exhausted their political capital. Voters are angry about corruption, gang violence and chronic inequality.The presidential campaign formally gets underway on Friday. As he runs for a third time, the odds have never looked so favorable for Lopez Obrador, who cheerily brushes off warnings that his criticism of business will alarm investors."They want to frighten you," he said in a video post last week. "But it won't work. People don't want corruption, they're sick of a few people bent on ripping off the country."Most polls give a double-digit lead to the baseball fan, who wore a cap and t-shirt in a video post on Wednesday, and pitched a ball to applause and laughter after pledging to send a "curve ball" to Trump.Lopez Obrador says his country must reduce its dependence on foreign influence. Trump's threats to make Mexico pay for a border wall and to tear up NAFTA have played into his hands.'RADICAL BASE'Often referred to by his initials as AMLO, Lopez Obrador has traversed the length and breadth of the country almost non-stop since he launched his first presidential bid in 2005.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.After narrowly losing to conservative Felipe Calderon in the 2006 election, he claimed the election was stolen and brought much of Mexico City to a standstill with massive street protests, declaring "to hell with your institutions."The protests damaged his popularity, but he continued to blast Calderon's National Action Party (PAN), then the centrist Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) of his successor Enrique Pena Nieto, as abettors of corruption and social unrest.A string of graft scandals and drug cartel violence under the PRI have helped his message resonate. By 2015 some senior officials were saying privately the election was AMLO's to lose.Since then, he has alternated between seeking to lure support away from rival parties and playing to his leftist base with attacks on the airport and the government's opening of the oil and gas industry."The main thing that he has to deal with is his base. He's very much like Donald Trump in that way," said Jorge Castaneda, co-campaign manager of Lopez Obrador's closest rival, 39-year-old Ricardo Anaya, who heads a right-left coalition."Which is why those people in Mexico who think he will become a moderate or a reasonable person are misunderstanding one: how radical his base is. And two: how careful he is never to lose touch with his base."No longer so openly contemptuous of Mexico's frail institutions, Lopez Obrador has expanded that base by courting support from social conservatives opposed to same-sex marriage, drug legalization and abortion.He soon modified his hard line on the airport, proposing that a group of experts analyze the project, which the government says would cost $6.6 billion to cancel.Tatiana Clouthier, a campaign coordinator who joined Lopez Obrador after long ties with the PAN, said this showed political maturity and a move toward the center."The great transformations in the world come via a pendulum between extremes," she said.Lopez Obrador has been vague on contentious issues, saying he will consult the public. When journalists on Milenio television pressed for specifics on drug policy last week, he smiled and demurred."In politics it's not black and white," he said. "There are times when you have to be nuanced."(Additional reporting by Frank Jack Daniel; Reporting by Dave Graham; Editing by Frank Jack Daniel and David Gregorio)Go to Home Page »Supported byThis theory has a certain logic to it. Yes, if anti-gun activists spent less time screaming at him, Rubio’s efforts might open up a little more common ground on gun policy. But Rubio is only one senator, previous pushes for gun regulation have had Republican senatorial sponsors before dying by filibuster, and in 2013, when liberals were broadly favorable to his efforts, Rubio couldn’t deliver immigration reform because the Republican House wasn’t having it.The problem, then, is relying on the bipartisan impulses of few Republican politicians when what you need is a broader climate change. The path to that change requires first putting the fear of God (or, if you prefer, the fear of the Arc of History) into vulnerable Republican lawmakers, and then making them unpopular enough that you can simply beat them.And the rage against Rubio, it could be argued, is a good example of how the two approaches reinforce each other. So far the experience of being screamed at hasn’t made him repudiate his support for new gun measures; perhaps, indeed, it has helped concentrate his mind on the political reasons that he should support them, while providing an example for activists in other states to use to shame their own Republican representatives for their ties to the N.R.A.I don’t want to wring my hands about this attitude’s corrosive effect on our politics, because it seems to me that once conservatism surrendered to Donald Trump, arguments about corrosion became a bit irrelevant. Rubio shouldn’t be in politics if he can’t handle vehement attacks, and the president that the Florida senator endorsed is as consistently ad hominem as the young school shooting survivors with rather less excuse.And it didn’t work out particularly well. Indeed if anything Obama’s executive action contributed to Trump’s victory by helping to radicalize conservative voters, and now several years later the Dreamer cohort is back in limbo because the executive move lacked bipartisan support and legislative form. Maybe in the longer run the whole debate will help smash the G.O.P. as liberals believe it deserves to be smashed — but not just yet.Again, maybe this was an example of tough liberals brilliantly playing hardball: Don’t let Rubio have any kind of victory for his slightly more popular flavor of Republicanism, so that he and his party will be easier to crush in 2018 and beyond. But in the interim it meant that Senate Democrats gave up a chance to move real world public policy in a direction many of them support, in order to pursue an as-yet-hypothetical larger victory that may not, like the Hillary Clinton presidency before it, actually materialize.It’s too soon to say whether this dynamic will repeat itself with the post-Parkland gun control debate. Again, the activists’ anti-Rubio zeal might actually help the progress of legislation, by holding him to his newfound promises. Or there might be no point in making a deal unless he’s willing to accept something closer to the full list of activist demands. Or no bargain of any sort might be possible so long as Republicans hold the Senate, or even so long as they hold seats in states like Florida — in which case the hate for the senator is just a necessary path to his eventual retirement.I am personally agnostic on all of these points. For all his various bipartisan efforts, it’s true that Rubio has not proven that he can actually deliver the votes for major compromises. And having watched the Trump G.O.P. hold power with a largely negative agenda and an ugly rhetorical style, I can certainly believe that a no-quarter liberalism will gain power eventually in its turn.But I can also believe that the obvious pleasure to be found in demonizing the Republican most likely to do outreach could deliver liberalism more of what it has already been earning for itself these last few years: the satisfaction of self-righteousness as a compensation for the absence of political or policy success.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSLAS VEGAS —  Federal criminal charges have been filed against four alleged MS-13 street gang members who police have said are responsible for 10 killings during the last year in and around Las Vegas, authorities said Wednesday.The announcement by Interim U.S. Attorney Dayle Elieson of one criminal case came two days after Clark County Sheriff Joe Lombardo in Las Vegas said the arrests of four adults and a 17-year-old who was being held as a juvenile broke up a murderous ring responsible for 10 slayings since March 2017.Elieson said the four — all from El Salvador and ranging in age from 19 to 24 — face kidnapping, weapon and assault with intent to commit murder charges in the death of a 21-year-old rival gang member mutilated body was found Feb. 2 on federal land in desert mountains east of Las Vegas. Each could face life in prison if convicted.The developments in Las Vegas follow recent declarations by President Donald Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions that they are committed to cracking down on MS-13. Trump blames lax U.S. immigration laws for allowing deported members of MS-13 to return to the U.S. to prey upon law-abiding people.A criminal complaint alleges that Arquimides Sandoval-Martinez, a former El Salvador resident, was abducted early Jan. 21 outside a downtown Las Vegas club, bound with shoelaces and driven to the desert where he was hacked with a machete and shot.In arguing for detention for three of the men pending trial, prosecutor Frank Coumou characterized the slaying as a "horrendous" ''mutilation killing."The complaint, filed Tuesday in U.S. District Court in Las Vegas, says Josue Diaz-Orellana, 22, Luis Reyes-Castillo, 24, David Perez-Manchame, 19, and Miguel Torres-Escobar, 20 were arrested March 2 in Diaz-Orellana's car.A large butcher knife, a bloodstained baseball hat and three 9mm handguns were also found in the car, the document alleges.Reyes-Castillo, Perez-Manchame and Torres-Escobar appeared in court Wednesday beside newly appointed lawyers as a U.S. magistrate judge ordered them to remain in federal custody and set an April 11 date to hear evidence in the case. Each defendant wore wrist, waist and ankle shackles and thin white paper jumpsuits with no pockets for the court appearance.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Documents say Reyes-Castillo also used the name Molesto and Perez-Manchame used the names Herbi and Walter Melendez.Diaz-Orellana is expected to appear for arraignment in coming days. He was charged March 20 with making a false statement to federal officers. He is accused of providing false identification documents following his arrest and saying he was a permanent U.S. resident who had applied for asylum. A different magistrate judge ordered him detained pending a preliminary hearing April 9.A federal public defender representing Diaz-Orellana did not immediately respond Wednesday to messages.The criminal complaint in his false information case says his car, a 2012 Ford Fusion, was seen on a state highway near Mount Charleston northwest of the city where the body of 26-year-old Earl R. Ryan was found March 2. Charges have not been filed in Ryan's death.The gang known as La Mara Salvatrucha emerged in the 1980s as a neighborhood street gang in Los Angeles but is believed by federal prosecutors to have thousands of members across the U.S., primarily immigrants from El Salvador and Honduras. They have been linked to waves of violence in the suburbs of New York City, Washington, D.C., and other communities.Lombardo, the elected head of the Las Vegas police department, estimated the number of MS-13 members in southern Nevada at fewer than 50.___A previous version corrects that a baseball hat, not a baseball bat, was found in the car.Go to Home Page »VIENNA —  Austria's government, the only one in Western Europe to include the far right, has spent much of its first 100 days dealing with anti-Semitism scandals and other unforeseen headwinds but only the anti-immigrant Freedom Party has suffered damage so far.After an election dominated by Europe's migration crisis, Chancellor Sebastian Kurz's conservatives and the Freedom Party (FPO) have stuck to their hard line on immigration, pledging to cut benefits for refugees and workers' children living abroad.But unscripted incidents have been piling up, from allegations of an FPO-driven purge at a domestic intelligence agency to unexpectedly stiff opposition to the government's plans to allow smoking in bars and restaurants.So far, the 31-year-old Kurz has stayed largely on-message, if slightly withdrawn, while most of the blame for recent setbacks has stuck to the FPO, costing it support both in regional elections and national opinion polls."The FPO grew up as an opposition party," political analyst Anton Pelinka said. "As a government party they are certainly going to have to suffer heavy losses. That is already becoming clear."During more than a decade in opposition the FPO presented itself as the only alternative to the Alpine republic's tradition of centrist coalitions like the last one, between Kurz's People's Party (OVP) and the Social Democrats.While it has only lost a few points in polls since securing 26 percent in October's parliamentary election, the FPO has failed to match that score in all three provincial votes this year. Polls show support for the OVP unchanged at about 32 percent.A cartoon this month in the Oberoesterreichische Nachrichten newspaper illustrated the mood, showing a suited Kurz walking on water while FPO leader Heinz-Christian Strache was neck-deep in it, arms flailing from his life jacket.The FPO has certainly been in more hot water than Kurz and his party.An anti-Semitism affair that has engulfed two right-wing fraternities close to the FPO prompted the party to set up a committee of historians to examine its past - an effort that Austria's Jewish community views with scepticism.The FPO also championed the right to smoke in bars and restaurants, spurring more than half a million people to sign a petition calling for a smoking ban, embarrassing a party that has simultaneously called for more direct democracy.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Strache also had to pay 10,000 euros ($12,350) in damages and issue a public apology to settle a defamation case brought by Austria's top news anchor after he posted a message on Facebook accusing him and state broadcaster ORF of lying.STRATEGIC SILENCEBut there is no sign so far that voters, many of whom had grown tired of bickering, often dysfunctional centrist coalitions, blame Kurz for bringing the FPO into government.And although allegations of a purge by the FPO interior minister at the BVT intelligence agency have caused tension, the two parties and their leaders have largely avoided public disputes, in contrast to previous governments."Despite several potential conflicts they have been able to avoid open discord," political analyst Thomas Hofer said. "The crisis management has been good."Kurz's public comments have been so disciplined that he has been mocked for being too cautious or even silent. A satirical website said the late British physicist Stephen Hawking had bequeathed his speech synthesizer to Kurz to enable him "to communicate with the outside world again".That criticism appears confined to the Vienna bubble for the time being.Economic growth in the affluent European Union country of 10 million people has picked up and is projected to reach around 3 percent this year, giving the government some fiscal leeway.It plans to cut taxes and balance the budget next year but has so far shied away from serious structural reform. And it could ultimately be judged on whether it lives up to pledges to overhaul the public sector that have largely yet to be clearly defined."For the moment that is evidently still working - being popular without saying anything of substance," Pelinka said. "How long can that last? Certainly not forever. But it could be one, two, three years."($1 = 0.8099 euros)(Editing by Mark Heinrich)Go to Home Page »UNION CITY, N.J. — Senator Robert Menendez officially announced his intention to run for re-election at a raucous rally on Wednesday, a remarkable turn two months after federal prosecutors dismissed corruption charges against the New Jersey Democrat.With nearly every state Democratic luminary inside a packed high school gymnasium here, it was an unusual show of force for a candidate who already enjoys a considerable lead in early polling.In his kickoff speech, sometimes delivered in Spanish, Mr. Menendez vowed that he would continue to fight against President Trump’s agenda.“There is a president in Washington who spends his days dividing us and distracting us, but never delivering for us,” Mr. Menendez said, drawing some of his loudest cheers.In January, it was far from assured that Mr. Menendez would even be on the stage. For 11 weeks last year, the senator was a defendant in a federal corruption trial with headlines tracing the prosecution’s case, which accused him of abusing his office to help his friend and co-defendant, Dr. Salomon Melgen, an eye doctor and political benefactor from Florida.But after jurors could not reach a verdict, the judge declared a mistrial and Mr. Menendez pronounced himself vindicated. Then the situation quickly changed. First, the Department of Justice announced that it would retry Mr. Menendez. Then the federal judge who oversaw the trial acquitted Mr. Menendez of several charges, severely hampering the retrial effort. Within days, the Department of Justice had dropped the case.If Mr. Menendez was ever worried about his political future, he seemed determined to dispel any notion of that on Wednesday. His campaign playlist featured numbers like “The Champion” by Carrie Underwood and “I Won’t Back Down” by Tom Petty.The people lining the rows in front of the stage at the rally, in the town where he began his political career, were a who’s who of New Jersey Democratic politics: Senator Cory Booker, Gov. Philip D. Murphy, Brian P. Stack, the mayor of Union City, and John Currie, the state party chairman.“I asked the question this morning, ‘Where would we be without Bob Menendez?’ ” Mr. Murphy said.While none of the speakers made explicit reference to Mr. Menendez’s legal battle, a common theme emerged: that the senator was, and always has been, “a fighter.”“This is the man that we need in this fight,” said Mr. Booker, whose 10-minute introduction reached such a crescendo that his voice grew hoarse. “This is the man who will help us to stand against the storm, this is the man that is ready to continue to defend the State of New Jersey.”Nearly the entire 2,800-student population of Union City High School, excused from four periods of classes, filled the gymnasium, waving campaign fliers and bopping to the music of Marc Anthony and Luis Fonsi.Mr. Menendez focused much of his speech on the youth in the crowd, recalling the nationwide protests for stronger gun laws and how the students at the School had their own protest. It was the youth, he said, that motivated him to run again.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“While some of you are not old enough to vote, I am not here to ask for your vote, I am here because I am your vote in the United States Senate,” he said.Mr. Menendez’s path to the Democratic nomination is fairly clear. If successful, his likely Republican opponent in the general election will be Bob Hugin, a former pharmaceutical executive with ties to former Gov. Chris Christie. Mr. Hugin’s ability to tap his fortune to finance his campaign could make the contest expensive and possibly more competitive than expected.The race could also turn nasty. At the rally, members of the state Republican Party handed out Monopoly-like cards with Mr. Menendez’s face on a cartoon prisoner and a photo of Mr. Menendez and Mr. Melgen vacationing together.If Mr. Menendez’s corruption trial dampened enthusiasm among Democrats it could spell trouble for other Democratic candidates in November. Democrats across the country are looking to House races in New Jersey as opportunities to pick up seats as they seek to wrest control from Republicans, but Democrats in those races will need a strong turnout to stand a chance.Mr. Menendez on Wednesday referred to his roots and a career that started in this city’s school district as evidence of an American dream fulfilled.“That is the promise of America,” he said, offering a subtle dig at Mr. Trump’s immigration policies. “That is the American dream. The idea that anything is possible because everyone is welcome.”Go to Home Page »HONOLULU —  John Fitisemanu, who works for a lab company in Utah, has paid U.S. taxes and been subject to American laws his whole life. But the 53-year-old father and husband isn't considered a U.S. citizen by the federal government because he was born in American Samoa, a U.S. territory and the only place in the country without automatic claim to citizenship. Now, he's suing to be recognized as an American.Fitisemanu is the lead plaintiff on a lawsuit filed Tuesday on behalf of American Samoans in Utah to be treated as U.S. citizens under the 14th Amendment of the Constitution. The Associated Press obtained the documents before the case was filed.American Samoa, a U.S. territory since 1900, is a cluster of islands 2,600 miles (4,184 kilometers) southwest of Hawaii perpetually stuck in a legal loophole. People born in the territory are labeled U.S. nationals. Under that status, they cannot vote, run for office, sponsor family members for immigration to the U.S., apply for certain government jobs, or serve on a jury -- despite paying taxes to Uncle Sam. They're even issued special U.S. passports that say: "This bearer is a United States national and not a United States citizen."With colleagues, "it's kind of like an office joke -- 'Hey! John is not a citizen, he's an alien!' I know they're joking, but it still hurts," Fitisemanu told the AP. "It feels like a slap in your face, that you're born on U.S. soil, but you're not recognized as a U.S. citizen."He's been rejected for jobs that list U.S. citizenship as a requirement. Prospective employers "need me to show them proof that I am a U.S. citizen, which I am not." Around elections, "I sit quietly at my cubicle, and don't say a word, because I know I can't vote," he said. "It's kind of embarrassing."Rosavita Tuli, another plaintiff in the case, has had to obtain special permits and pay fees that wouldn't apply to U.S. citizens when visiting her aging parents outside American Samoa, according to court documents.Although American Samoans can pursue naturalized citizenship, the lawsuit says it is a "lengthy, costly, and burdensome" process. The cost to apply is $725, and legal fees pile up if applicants hire an attorney to help navigate the process. For Fitisemanu, a previous divorce and other financial burdens have prevented him from going that route.Also, "there's no guarantee of success," said Neil Weare, the attorney leading the suit, and president of non-profit Equally American. "If someone has a birth certificate showing they were born on U.S. soil, they shouldn't have to jump through any more hoops to be recognized as a U.S. citizen."Those born in the territory, however, can claim citizenship at birth if one of their parents is a U.S. citizen. The same generally holds true for children born abroad to Americans.This is Weare's second attempt on the issue. A previous case he led stalled in 2016 when the Supreme Court declined to reconsider a ruling from a lower court in D.C., which found the constitutional guarantee of birthright citizenship didn't apply to American Samoa, and referred back to controversial colonial era decisions from the early 20th century after the U.S. acquired a spate of territories in the Spanish American War.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Known as the "Insular Cases," the Supreme Court distinguished between "incorporated" and "unincorporated" territories. The former, such as Arizona and New Mexico, mostly settled by white people, were thought destined to be a permanent part of the U.S. The latter, such as American Samoa, weren't considered candidates for statehood, whose inhabitants were described as "alien races" and "uncivilized," and thus weren't granted full constitutional rights.Over the years, Congress has decided on a per territory basis to allow those born in Puerto Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands and the Northern Mariana Islands to claim citizenship by birth. American Samoa's population of about 55,000, however, has continued to fall to the wayside."This is the holding pattern we've been in now for over a century," said Sam Erman, an expert in constitutional law and a professor at the University of Southern California. Still, Erman and many legal scholars agree that "American Samoans are clearly citizens under the 14th Amendment."This lawsuit places a question mark over whether the millions that lived in the Philippines while the country was a U.S. territory for five decades until 1946 would also be able to seek U.S. citizenship, said Erman, who plans to file a legal brief on the current lawsuit.The local American Samoan government has before taken a nuanced view over the issue, given concern about how aspects of Samoan life and culture "would be jeopardized if subjected to scrutiny under the 14th Amendment," according to court documents filed in 2014 by lawyers representing the government. American Samoa Governor Lolo Moliga didn't respond to a request for comment.The U.S. State Department, named as the defendants on the lawsuit, declined to comment on pending litigation.Utah has a major Samoan population. If the case there is decided favorably, that would create a "circuit split" -- a conflicting ruling to what was previously decided in another court, which could add pressure to the Supreme Court to review.Until then, Fitisemanu is standing firm: "People will say what they want to say, and I'm going to believe in what I want to believe, and I believe that I should be a U.S. citizen."Go to Home Page »Supported byOp-Ed ContributorBut the borrowing of ideas hasn’t been a one-way street: the government here has taken a page out of Mr. Trump’s book. The new Select Committee on Deliberate Online Falsehoods is holding public hearings to explore measures for tackling “fake news.” The committee is meant to examine a range of options, but there are strong hints that new restrictions on the media are on the way, not least because the law minister, who is also a member of the committee, has already said that legislation is a “no-brainer.”Mr. Trump constantly proclaims that his “America First” policy will prevent the United States from being taken for a ride by other countries, while Singapore denounces foreign interference in its domestic politics. Yet when the occasion suits, both are more than happy to borrow ideas from elsewhere to control their populations. Such opportunism is the hallmark of authoritarians constantly on the lookout for ways to consolidate or expand their power.Both governments claim they’re solving urgent problems: to get the opioid crisis in the United States under control, to pre-empt disinformation campaigns that might threaten Singapore’s stability. But neither proposed solution is likely to solve the problem, and might even make things worse.The Singapore government has pointed to the United States, among others, as a target of disinformation campaigns, arguing that measures have to be taken to pre-empt attempts that exploit social fault lines to sow divisions within society. But Singapore already has laws that include the criminalizing of the transmission of messages known to be false, speech with the tendency to “promote feelings of ill-will and hostility between different races or classes of the population,” even the uttering of words with the “deliberate intention of wounding” religious or racial feelings, on top of other regulations that give the government control over the mainstream media and the power to take down content.Both Mr. Trump and the Singapore government have little time for human rights, civil liberties or even openness and accountability when there’s something they want to achieve. For Mr. Trump, the death penalty fits his favored straight-talking, tough-guy image. For Singapore, spinning “fake news” into a national security issue is a great opportunity to expand state control of the online space, where political discourse is freer than anywhere else in the country.Kirsten Han is a journalist and advocate for the abolition of capital punishment in Singapore.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSWASHINGTON —  The U.S. decision to expel 60 alleged spies is unlikely to cripple Russian spying in the United States because others have wormed and hacked their way into American companies, schools, and even the government, current and former U.S. officials said.Moscow's spy services still use the cover of embassies and consulates, as Washington does. But they also recruit Russian emigres, establish front companies, dispatch short-term travelers to the United States, recruit Americans, and penetrate computer networks, the officials said."Russia used to have one way of doing things. Now, Putin is - let a thousand flowers bloom," a former senior U.S. official said in a recent interview, describing Moscow's move to a more multifaceted approach under President Vladimir Putin, a former Soviet spy himself.The FBI follows the movements and monitors the communications of suspected foreign spies, but the increased Russian presence and the advent of commercially available encrypted communications are an added challenge to the FBI's counter-espionage force, said the officials, some of whom spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the sensitive topic.As one U.S. official put it when asked if Russian spying is a harder target: "It’s more complex now. The complexity comes in the techniques that can be used."While the CIA tracks foreign spies overseas and the National Security Agency monitors international communications, the FBI is responsible for spy-catching inside the United States.The White House on Monday said it would expel 60 Russian diplomats, 12 of them at the U.N. mission, and close the Russian consulate in Seattle as part of a multi-nation response to the Kremlin's alleged nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy in Britain.Briefing reporters, a senior U.S. official said there were "well over" 100 Russian spies posing as diplomats in the United States before the expulsion order.A veteran U.S. official charged with keeping tabs on Russian espionage said the administration downplayed the number of suspected Russian spies working under diplomatic cover to avoid giving the Russians a clearer picture of how many people are under surveillance.The actual number varies over time, but "it averages more like 150 or so," the official said."We've got a very, very, very good counter-intelligence apparatus," said Robert Litt, a former general counsel for the U.S. Director of National Intelligence. "There are a lot of people in the FBI whose job it is to track these people - and they're very good at it."TAKES TEN TO TANGOStill, it can take 10 or more U.S. trained FBI and local law enforcement officers to keep tabs on one trained spy for a 24-hour period - covering back entrances to buildings and multiple elevators, and being alert for changes in clothes, cars and even hairpieces, the same official said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.One Russian tactic is sending a large number of people, including just one or two intelligence officers, streaming out of a diplomatic mission at once, making it harder for the FBI to decide whom to follow, said a former U.S. intelligence officer, also speaking on the condition of anonymity.Microsoft Corp. was one target of the Russian espionage operation in Seattle, U.S. officials familiar with the expulsions said. One goal was identifying targets for recruitment in the company's coding operations because the company's products are used in so many applications, they said.Microsoft declined comment.In 2010, Alexey Karetnikov, a 23-year-old Russian spy who had worked at testing computer code in Microsoft's Richmond, Wash., headquarters, was deported by an immigration judge.Several of the officials traced the Kremlin's more aggressive spying approach to Putin's 2012 return to the presidency, and Moscow's 2014 seizure of Crimea and intervention in eastern Ukraine."We observed a commensurate uptick in Russian intelligence and espionage activity in the U.S. and across Europe, although few analysts connected the dots," said Heather Conley, a former State Department official now at the Center for Strategic and International Studies think tank.Michael Rochford, a former FBI chief for espionage, said the mass expulsion of suspected spies posing as diplomats will affect Russia's security services and dent morale at their Moscow headquarters.After past expulsions, he said, Russian spies have handed their operations over to officers who remain behind, or to "illegals" - long-term agents with no demonstrable connections to the Russian government.The risk, he said, is that when Moscow replaces the expelled personnel, it will not be clear who the new spies are."Sometimes it's better to know who they are and follow them," he said.(Additional reporting by Jonathan Landay; Editing by Mary Milliken and James Dalgleish)Go to Home Page »Floating villages spread across the surface of the Mekong River’s waterways, playing host to ethnic Vietnamese whose status in Cambodian society is perpetually adrift.This article was written with the support of the Pulitzer Center on Crisis Reporting.Chong Koh is one of hundreds of floating villages, comprising tens of thousands of families, on the Tonle Sap River and the lake of the same name in Cambodia. Dangers on a floating village multiply in the rainy season. When I first visited, in late July, there was always something for Hoarith to do: repairing storm damage in a wall of thatched palm, clearing the water hyacinths that collected along the upstream porch. Sometimes the house had to be towed closer to the receding shoreline so that storms or the waves of passing ships would not capsize it. Every few months, he got his ancient air compressor working and swam beneath the house, a rubber hose between his teeth, to refill the cement jars that kept the whole thing buoyant. He was mindful of pythons.The afternoon of my arrival, Hoarith was squatting over an old butane camp stove, scraping at a rusted gas valve. Rust was the common enemy on the water. Someone had thrown the stove away, but he thought he could fix it to sell on his next trip onto the lake. His wooden long-tail, moored against the house, covered in tarpaulin and heavy with cargo, carried him to floating villages as far as 90 miles away. “I know Tonle Sap like my hand,” he said. There was Prek Tor, a remote village where every family, rich or poor, had a wooden cage for raising crocodiles. And Kbal Taol, where fishermen lived in clustered homes on the open water, risking the daily storms, competing to catch hatchlings with nets up to half a mile long. Hoarith visited them all. He was sometimes on the lake for a month at a stretch, selling pots and stoves, sleeping rough under the long-tail’s planked roof.But he always came back to Chong Koh, his home of several years, where the villagers live on cabin-size houseboats and junks arranged in tidy rows orthogonal to either shore. In the space between houses, some families raise carp and catfish in bamboo cages or keep floating gardens of potted pepper and papaya trees. Other villages are labyrinthine extensions of nearby shore towns, with broad Venetian canals and twisting alleyways, floating temples, churches, schoolrooms and oil-black ice factories. Chong Koh is relatively small, and shrinking — Cambodian authorities would like it to disappear entirely — but it lies about a mile from the heart of Kampong Chhnang, the large provincial capital, and as Hoarith worked, a steady fleet of peddlers took their boats to and from its markets.While Hoarith picked at the stove with a screwdriver, a neighbor lay in a hammock, watching him work. The neighbor, like Hoarith and everyone else in the village, was ethnically Vietnamese, and he had a Vietnamese name, Vieng Yang Nang. But most of the time he went by Samnang, which means “lucky” in Khmer, the language of Cambodia’s ethnic majority. Both men kept two names on the water — one Khmer, one Vietnamese — and switched between them freely. They felt at home in both worlds, although they weren’t always accepted in the first. In Cambodia, where the concepts of nationality and ethnicity are inextricable, members of the ethnic Vietnamese minority are known as yuon, a ubiquitous slur that is sometimes translated as “savage.”I sat on the floor listening to Samnang and Hoarith revisit a conversation from earlier in the day. That morning we had visited the school and the Vietnamese pagoda, stilted buildings near the fish market where Chong Koh once stood. Local officials evicted the village in 2015, forcing residents to move more than a mile downriver, and both buildings were now hard to access. Such evictions are frequent and unpredictable, and sometimes lead to other trouble. After Hoarith asked the authorities to help with costs related to the move, the police arrested him and accused him of inciting villagers to resist eviction. He spent three months in a squalid prison cell before Thi Vioh borrowed enough money for his release, after which the charges against him were dropped. They only wanted to send him a message, he thought. “I hadn’t committed any crime,” he said. “I had a reputation.”Hoarith and Samnang agreed that you can’t fight evictions on the water. Floating settlements are technically illegal, and the Vietnamese in particular are powerless against such orders. “The poor will become poorer,” Samnang said. Hoarith said nothing, only swept the pile of rust flakes that he amassed into a knothole in the floor. He set a can of butane into the stove’s empty chamber and pressed the pilot button. A bull’s-eye of blue flame appeared. We laughed. A few houses away, a woman sang love songs on a karaoke system powered by a car battery.Tonle Sap’s unique hydrology makes it one of the most fertile ecosystems on the planet. For half the year, the Tonle Sap River flows southeast from the lake to Phnom Penh. But during the rainy season, the swollen Mekong forces the Tonle Sap to flow in reverse, and the lake engorges to as much as six times its dry-season expanse, two miracles of plenty which over the millenniums have drawn fishermen and rice farmers alike to its doubly silted, nutrient-rich shores. Eels, frogs, shrimp and fish proliferate with tropical abandon, particularly in the fecund bottleneck where, viewed from above, the river appears to fray into dozens of delicate blue fibers before braiding itself back into open water.The border between Vietnam and Cambodia, which divides the Mekong Delta, has occasioned more battles than nearly any other in Asia. The people living on either side have been in contact for at least a thousand years, an uninterrupted exchange of goods and labor that for the last four centuries has been marked by bold Vietnamese expansion. In the 1630s, a Cambodian king married a Vietnamese princess and allowed the Vietnamese to set up customs ports along the Mekong. The settlers eventually annexed the region, cutting off Cambodia’s access to the South China Sea and stranding many Khmer people inside Vietnam, where they developed a distinct ethnic identity as Khmer Krom. This occupation of “Lower Cambodia” has never been forgiven.Cambodia’s borders were formalized when the country became a colonial protectorate in 1863. The French imported Vietnamese workers for its rubber plantations and drew on Saigon’s educated elite as administrative clerks. The number of Vietnamese in the country increased 30-fold, to more than 150,000, or 6 percent of the population. By the time Cambodia declared independence in 1953, the country was polyethnic and multinational, with enclaves of hill tribes and other distinct indigenous minorities, populations of Chinese, Lao and Vietnamese speakers and boundaries that bore only a loose resemblance to those of its precolonial realm. It fell to Cambodia’s first modern leader, Norodom Sihanouk, to unify this haphazardly circumscribed populace.Sihanouk’s grand idea was to redefine the historic term “Khmer” to include a wide range of ethnic identities. The policy rendered most of the nation’s indigenous groups, including even its Muslim Cham minority, inheritors of the ancient imperial lineage. But the ethnic Vietnamese had no place in this new national typology. Although small numbers of them had lived in the country for centuries, they were Cambodia’s hereditary enemy. After a 1970 coup, they became the targets of pogroms and massacres, adding to the chaos of that decade, which began with civil war and a brutal United States bombing campaign and ended with occupation by the Vietnamese Army. In the interim, during the five-year reign of the Khmer Rouge, millions died from execution, starvation and disease.[T]oward the southern extremity of the city, we passed a floating town, composed of more than 500 boats, most of them of large size. They serve as an entrepôt for some merchants, and residences for others. All their money and the greater part of their merchandize is here kept, that, in case of alarm, they may be ready to take flight at a moment’s warning.There is also the collective memory, rarely transcribed, of the floating villagers themselves, who corroborate Mouhot’s intuition that theirs is a lifestyle honed over generations to mitigate against the bad harvests, marauding bandits and unfriendly rulers to which minority Vietnamese remain especially vulnerable. Some told me that they had owned land in the early years of independence and that they had lived on the water only seasonally until the land was taken away. Others said they had always lived on boats. Some identified strongly as Cambodian, while others found the question of national allegiance absurd. “We just live on the water, where it’s easy to catch fish,” a monk in Kampong Chhnang told me. “We lived everywhere.”Hoarith could count at least four generations of ancestors around Tonle Sap. Born at the mouth of the lake, he was 9 when the Khmer Rouge marched into Phnom Penh. His family was captured and sent to a labor camp in the mountains. After four months at the camp — where, he said, “they tried to kill at least 10 Vietnamese families a day” — the soldiers loaded the prisoners onto ferries to be deported “back” to Vietnam. Hoarith had never been to Vietnam. He didn’t know where Vietnam was. He asked his grandmother, but she didn’t know either. The ferry to the border took five days. Anyone who died was thrown overboard.Around 150,000 ethnic Vietnamese were expelled from the country in this way, joining the 400,000 or so who had already fled pogroms under the ultranationalist Khmer Republic. The Vietnamese were both regimes’ preferred scapegoat: “ingrate crocodiles” who wanted to swallow Cambodia whole. Those who survived the journey were traded to Vietnam for salt and rice and lived out the disastrous 1970s on farms in the countryside. Those who stayed in Cambodia — 20,000 to 30,000 people — were slaughtered, alongside 90,000 Cham and as many as 100,000 Khmer civilians who were condemned for the crime of having “Khmer bodies and Vietnamese minds.”There is a tradition of rural pluralism in Cambodia that belies its recent history of racial violence. Most of the floating villages I saw were peaceful mélanges of Vietnamese, Khmer and Cham fishers, and many of the people I met, including Hoarith, were the product of mixed Khmer and Vietnamese marriages. But everyone seemed to agree that floating villages were traditionally a Vietnamese way of life, enlarged out of economic necessity to include other groups. Today the ethnic Vietnamese live on the water because they are not able to live elsewhere. Neither documented citizen nor, in most cases, immigrant, they are what the government has sometimes described as “nonimmigrant foreigners.” They cannot attend public schools or open bank accounts, get a driver’s license or a factory job or own land or property. Their children are not issued birth certificates, precipitating a generational cycle of de facto statelessness.“Thirty years ago, none of this mattered,” Christoph Sperfeldt, a researcher on ethnic Vietnamese citizenship in Cambodia, told me. “No Cambodians had papers. There was no state presence. But the moment the state starts registering people, suddenly it matters.” The expansion of services, including education and health care, and entitlements, including land ownership, has further marginalized those perceived as foreign.Last year, fearing a narrowing electoral gap, Hun Sen’s government disbanded the C.N.R.P. and arrested Rainsy’s successor on charges of treason. In an effort to defuse the nativism that had fueled the opposition party, the state also began the process of formalizing the status of ethnic Vietnamese as foreigners. Last October, the Ministry of the Interior identified a minimum of 70,000 mostly Vietnamese “foreigners” who possessed “irregular administrative documents.” There may be hundreds of thousands more. Officials began sweeping the country, confiscating IDs and family books and demanding that residents either volunteer to move to Vietnam — where they are similarly considered foreigners — or pay a biannual fee for an immigration card identifying the holder as Vietnamese. “We don’t remove their citizenship; they are Vietnamese,” the head of the country’s immigration department said of the purge. “We just take the Cambodian documents.”With no formal legal identity and few of the rights enjoyed by their Khmer and Cham neighbors, Vietnamese claim to pay large bribes to the fishery police, the environmental police, the maritime police and other, more ambiguous authority figures, some posing as local journalists. They are subject to evictions, mobs and capricious imprisonment. Hoarith was released in February 2016, but when I met him nearly a year and a half later, the indignity of arrest, for which he blamed his lack of citizenship, continued to occupy his mind. “I should be recognized as Khmer,” he said that afternoon, moving close. His eyes were moss green. “My family has lived in Cambodia for many generations.” He pulled back a curtain in the cramped room, revealing a woman asleep in a hammock. “My mother is 76 years old,” he said. “Even she has no documents.” Nor, now, did he. Upon his arrest, the police had confiscated his birth and marriage certificates and the national ID card he received years ago.It was agreed I would spend the night on the disused houseboat next door. Some of the weathered boards plunged into space when you stepped on them, and most of the floor was taken up by Hoarith’s supplies: rust-black sheets of tin, a roll of wire mesh, scales for weighing tubs at market. We cleared a spot for bedding, and Samnang and I chased down a boat woman selling old fabrics for a mosquito net.Dinner was a leathery fish pounded flat and fried in oil on the camp stove Hoarith had fixed that afternoon. Samnang shouted to his wife over the water that he was staying for the meal. Hoarith’s wife and mother ate together on the other houseboat; his mother deftly hopped the gap to retrieve a can of beer from the icebox. She picked up a few grains of rice I spilled from my bowl. “During the Khmer Rouge, this was our entire dinner,” she said. “This was all the food we ate in a day.”As night fell, Thi Vioh washed the dishes in a tub of river water, and Hoarith bought bags of bean pudding from the last sampan of the evening, a dessert cruiser strung with colored lights. We listened to the boats roaring up and down the dark channel. Young men in the village liked to modify boats with car engines for night races. Each motor’s throat cleared the air of the insects’ chirping.It was in one of these brief pockets of stillness that Samnang explained how his brother had died last year when a night racer collided with his fishing boat. His 4-year-old nephew had drowned that year, too, while the parents were both at work. The water has its dangers, including diarrhea (the most common cause of infant death), accidents and drowning. Most children under 5 wear life jackets when their parents can afford them, and improvised devices — the grimmest I saw was an empty motor-oil bottle tied to a length of wire looped around an infant’s neck — when they can’t.Everyone was in bed by 11 o’clock. From the shoreline came a hollow chorus of empty hulls knocking into mangrove roots. Behind a half wall near my mat, a few alternating floorboards permitted a view of the river between my legs: the facilities. Under the mosquito net, the world was awash in diaphanous pink flowers. Every few seconds, a green light affixed to a roof beam illuminated the room as a warning to nighttime fishermen, whose boats I drowsily mistook for low-flying helicopters.Samnang was friendly with everyone we passed, although he did not wave unless his hand already happened to be rising to pluck the cigarette from his lips. He had a fisherman’s shrewd economy of movement, and his toes were muscular and permanently splayed, the better to maneuver along the narrow gunwales of a boat in motion. There was an archipelago of pitted skin above his left eyebrow, where he said a drunk Khmer villager had once crushed a glass into his face.We came to an overgrown graveyard in a raised field. Unlike the Khmer, who cremate their dead, the Vietnamese bury family members in aboveground tombs. Graves thus show a record of Vietnamese residence that no law or loss of document can rescind. Life on the water leaves few ruins, but even families who have immigrated to Vietnam return to Cambodia once a year, usually in March or April, for the annual tomb-sweeping that wards off the wrath of the spirit realm. We drove from cemetery to cemetery, scraping ivy from stones to find the dates beneath, until we arrived at a sunken fen where more gravestones rose from the water like buoys. Samnang pointed to one. “My wife’s grandmother’s,” he said. There had once been a large Vietnamese village here. The stone lay between two converging strands of river. In a few days it would be underwater.We followed the farmer’s directions down a narrow stream that meandered for an hour past worm-infested trees from whose branches hung the teardrop nests of tropical birds. Around noon we reached the village, which was called Samraong. There was a dirt road where sickly cows communed with the bovine infinite beneath stilted houses frozen in midcollapse. Children played in the tall grass. Neang Kangrei Mountain loomed overhead, and between the village and the mountain stood an incongruously opulent temple. Its gate was red and gold, framing the mountain’s broad green slope. At the entrance stood a banner pillar, which connects heaven and earth in Buddhist cosmology. The pillar was square, in the Vietnamese style. Two stucco warriors stood on either side of the temple, 12 feet tall, pressing their swords into the earth.We found an old monk in a hammock outside his hut. He woke up as we approached. Like the bean farmer, he remembered the Vietnamese. They had used this land for centuries, he said. Behind the monk’s house were two brightly painted tombs, whose caretakers traveled from Ho Chi Minh City every March to sweep them.A group of men had come up the road as we were talking. Now they approached us. The loudest, Uy Poun, boasted to me that he helped to convert the abandoned pagoda 15 years ago, exchanging the Vietnamese gods for Khmer ones. “I built this pagoda,” he said. It had been abandoned for years by then, ever since the Khmer Rouge had moved the whole town to a camp at the foot of the mountain. Some Vietnamese were taken there, and that was the end of their time in the village. “But they weren’t killed,” he added. “They went to Vietnam.”Another man, Ek Srean, disagreed. Many were killed, he said. “I was an eyewitness. I saw the bones. I saw the bones in the pit.”“There were bones,” a third said, “but we don’t know if they were Khmer or Vietnamese.”The men fought over the fate of the Vietnamese for a while. Samnang and I listened and ate some boiled peanuts we bought in the market that morning. Conversations about the Khmer Rouge can have a dreamlike quality in Cambodia, drifting back and forth over the same gruesome territory — the crude methods of murder, the pitiful rations of rice and broth — while trading in rumors, jokes and legends. Facts are overwritten; memories change midsentence. A story is told that contradicts the one preceding it, and both are accepted as passing glimpses of a historical truth too immense to view head-on. After some cajoling, Poun admitted that Vietnamese may have been killed in the camps. “But we didn’t know,” he added. Then he seemed to change his mind. “The Vietnamese never came to the commune where we were.”We moved on to the question of whether a Vietnamese could ever become Cambodian. As usual, the word “Khmer” was used to denote both ethnicity and nationality. One man in the group put forth a tentative theory: “It depends on their desires, if they want to become Khmer or not. If they give up their Vietnamese nationality, they become Khmer.”Srean again held a different opinion. “They can hold the documents, but they cannot become Khmer. The Vietnamese are still Vietnamese.” He shook his head and was quiet for a while. “Unless the king signs.”This generated murmurs of approval. We had forgotten the king’s signature. According to Cambodian law, Prince Sihanouk’s son, Norodom Sihamoni, is the final arbiter of Cambodian citizenship. All applicants for naturalization must meet his personal standards of character. None of us knew whether this had ever actually happened. But the men at least agreed that it might, and that the Vietnamese had lived among Cambodians for generations without any trouble. “Vietnamese and Khmer married each other in this very village,” Poun said. “But not anymore.”“They were expelled,” another said with finality. “And those who decided to stay were all killed. If they had white skin like a Vietnamese, like that” — he pointed at me, not at Samnang, who was keeping his distance — “they would be killed. I saw it.”The man seemed to know what he was talking about. Most soldiers and even senior political leaders who served in the Khmer Rouge melted smoothly back into village life after its demise, sometimes rejoining the very communities where they had once worked as executioners. It is rare for anyone to admit such things. The subject was raised in a tactful way. The man who had spoken thought for a moment, then asked to revise his story.“Well, I didn’t see it exactly,” he said. “I heard about it. But someone who had light skin like you would definitely be killed.”Wherever I went, I asked local politicians and police officers what they thought of the ethnic Vietnamese living among them. The answer depended on where I happened to be. Officials spoke carefully in the cities, and I was politely bounced from the immigration police headquarters in Kampong Chhnang. But I had no trouble at the immigration police station in Kampong Luong, a sprawling conglomerate of floating villages, both Vietnamese and Khmer, on the southern shore of the lake. More than 3,000 ethnic Vietnamese lived in Kampong Luong, alongside as many Khmer, and everyone said they got along swimmingly.The police station was near the shore, a tin shed floating in a stream of wet garbage. Deputy Inspector Poa Ven was inside the shed, sweating. He was happy to see me. “We are aware of all foreign visitors,” he said, chuckling, when I handed him my business card.All the foreigners in the village were Vietnamese nationals, he explained. There was no difference between an ethnic Vietnamese and a Vietnamese citizen unless they got a letter signed by the king. “No one here has Khmer nationality.”I explained my confusion. Most of the people I’d met on floating villages could trace their lineage in Cambodia back many generations. They spoke Khmer fluently and had even been issued IDs by previous administrations. They had no ties to Vietnam.Yes, he said, even they were Vietnamese. Those were the new orders from the Ministry of the Interior.“But why are they Vietnamese?”“Because they are still immigrants! Because they came to Cambodia in 1980, they are still immigrants.”“Because during the civil war, they went to Vietnam, and after the war they came back.”Nationalism is always in search of an enemy. In Cambodia, the search has a neat circular logic: The Vietnamese are enemies because they are foreign. They are foreign because they are enemies. Their existence here betrays a contradiction between the myth of a pure Khmer empire and the country’s lived history of migration and movement along the Mekong. The contradiction has been resolved at times by violence, but it is perpetuated by education. The Khmer Rouge years may be fading from living memory, but children are still taught to resent the loss of “Lower Cambodia,” and every student has heard of the rapes, gas attacks and elaborate acts of torture that Vietnamese soldiers are believed to have committed during the Indochina wars.“All of that stuff tends to weigh very heavily on Cambodian minds,” Craig Etcheson, a Khmer Rouge scholar at Harvard, told me. “And that is very easy for opportunistic politicians to exploit and inflame.” Etcheson is a founder of the Documentation Center of Cambodia, which has provided much of the evidence for the Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia, or Khmer Rouge Tribunal, convened in 2006 to try a handful of senior Khmer Rouge leaders for crimes against humanity. The second phase of the trials, concerning genocide against minority groups, including the Vietnamese, concluded its final arguments last summer. A ruling is expected this year.Lyma Nguyen, an international civil-party counsel at the tribunal, told me she had hoped that one consequence of the trial would be a pathway to a stable legal identity for Vietnamese survivors of the Khmer Rouge. But she encountered insurmountable resistance to the idea. Current plans for reparations include only a watered-down education program for raising awareness about nationality laws. “Many mainstream Cambodians, including some lawyers and academics, actually don’t think the Vietnamese victims of the genocide should have a legitimate claim to having suffered genocide, because they’re Vietnamese,” she said. “They think it’s all a big conspiracy by Vietnam to swallow up Cambodia.”Most ethnic Vietnamese in the country continue to feel that they are Cambodians of Vietnamese origin. They refuse to give up hope that someday their Cambodian identity will be accepted in the country they call home. Instead, with somewhere between 400,000 and one million members, according to independent scholars, and virtually no international calls for Cambodia to uphold its own nationality laws, they are arguably one of the largest and least-supported stateless populations in the world.The ethnic Vietnamese have taken to hiding their documents from the police currently sweeping the country. It’s not the first time this kind of thing has happened to them. At the Vietnamese pagoda in Kampong Chhnang, I met a diminutive 80-year-old seamstress. Only monks and laypeople are meant to live at the pagoda, but she didn’t have any family — her children died before her eyes in a Khmer Rouge labor camp — so the monks took pity on her. I asked whether she ever received any identification papers. She shuffled to her room and came back holding a small packet wrapped in twine. “You’re lucky,” she said as she untied it. “I’ve never let anyone look at these before.” She began spreading an astonishing half-century’s worth of documents across the table. There were cards from Sihanouk’s Cambodia alongside decades’ worth of residency permits from Vietnam, to which she was twice deported. So long as she never showed them to anyone, the documents could never be invalidated or purged. They were her private legal self, a superposition of identities both Vietnamese and Cambodian. She would not give them up. “I’ll keep these documents with me until I die,” she said, “and then I’ll take them to the grave with me.”The heat broke with a late-afternoon downpour. The children of supplicants made a game of leaping through the deluge onto an empty fish barge moored to the pagoda, then back again with fearless precision. At dusk, the ceremony began. There was an hour of amplified chanting before the head monk tossed holy water over the crowd and called for the doors of hell to open. As if on cue, the rain slowed, then stopped. The temple emptied into the ferries and sampans outside. At the front of the largest ferry, a monk rang a finger-cymbal to wake the drowned, and the boats slipped onto the open lake. There was no moon. The water was black. Webs of distant lightning soundlessly limned the clouds red. Along the sides of the ferries and the gunwales of each boat, families placed paper rafts and plastic lotus flowers into the water. Each was topped by a burning candle, such that the lake became a field of bobbing orange stars. All was still, save for the families who boated past, singing into the dark. Some of their boats nearly spilled over with children. Some of the paper boats flared up in a flash and sank.Beyond the scarp that runs along Chong Koh, a new market complex was under construction, and with it came berms of red soil and cement foundations cratered with silted ponds. Once the market was finished, the villagers in Chong Koh would be evicted again, ahead of floating communities across the province. Officials said the villages were illegal and environmentally toxic. Their residents would be squeezed onto marshy rented plots earmarked for immigrants, far from their boats and fish cages.Neither Hoarith nor Samnang wanted to move. “I can’t speak out,” Samnang said as we sat drinking coffee in his house. “They claim to give us a choice. But we have no right to buy any other land, so really it’s no choice at all.”We paddled next door, where Hoarith was too consumed by boat repair to worry about any new evictions. Last week he had chopped three feet off the back of his long-tail. Now his transmission was spread out before him like a gutted squid.As he worked, Hoarith’s thoughts often went back to his prison cell and to the spot of cold floor next to the toilet where he had slept. “I never discriminate against anyone, Vietnamese or Khmer,” he said. “But I was treated so badly.” If he were granted Khmer citizenship, he said, all would be forgiven. “My parents were born here, and I was born here,” he said. “I have that right.”There was nothing to say. Samnang found a hatchet to sharpen on the rear step over the water. Hoarith turned back to his work. A washer, slick with oil, shot from his hand. It bounced against the floor and off the side of the house before he caught it over the water, hissing in surprise.The first people to leave Chong Koh went by night as soon as the new immigration cards were announced in 2014. Since then, at least a thousand have shoved off to other provinces or sold their houses and hitched to Vietnam, part of a growing exodus all over Cambodia. In village after village, the immigration police and council leaders said the same thing: “The Vietnamese are leaving.”In a pinch, Hoarith thought he might be able to live with his wife’s relatives in Vietnam. Better was the lake. On the open lake it was more dangerous, but he would be close to his ancestors, and the authorities there weren’t as strict. The boat people had figured out how to manage them, as they managed the squalls and the waves. They knew how not to challenge the weather but survive it, was how he put it. That was the trick. You had to plan for the storm before the clouds opened up.The Environmental Protection Agency on Monday took steps to challenge California’s decades-old right to set its own air pollution rules, setting up a showdown between the federal government and a state that has emerged as a bulwark against the Trump administration’s policies.The E.P.A. statement was part of the agency’s widely expected decision to reconsider, and most likely roll back, Obama-era rules requiring automakers to hit ambitious emissions and mileage standards by 2025. The statement, though, was notable for the forcefulness of its language suggesting that the Trump administration would take on California’s authority to set its own rules.Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. administrator, signaled that he aimed to make California fall in line. The Obama administration, he said, “made assumptions about the standards that didn’t comport with reality, and set the standards too high.” California’s history of setting its own emissions rules “doesn’t mean that one state can dictate standards for the rest of the country,” Mr. Pruitt said.A rollback of the rules, which are designed to cut back on emissions of greenhouse gases, would reverse one of the single biggest steps any government has taken to tackle climate change. California has said it will stick with the tougher, Obama-era regulations, a decision that could effectively split the United States into two auto markets: one requiring cars to be more efficient and less polluting than the other.California has long possessed the unique authority under the 1970 Clean Air Act to write its own air pollution rules. Traditionally, a dozen other states follow California’s air pollution rules and together they represent one-third of the nation’s auto market. That puts California in an extraordinary position to stage a regulatory revolt, with much of the country’s car market in tow.President Trump and the E.P.A. are scaling back Obama-era rules for U.S. automakers on greenhouse gas emissions. Here’s the breakdown.State officials indicated they would fight the Trump administration. “This is a politically motivated effort to weaken clean vehicle standards,” said Mary Nichols, California’s top air pollution regulator. California, she said, “will vigorously defend the existing clean vehicle standards.”Xavier Becerra, the state’s attorney general, said the state was “ready to file suit.”Adopted in 2012, the standards up for revision would have required automakers to nearly double the average fuel economy of new cars and trucks, to 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025. If fully implemented, the rules would have cut oil consumption by about 12 billion barrels over the lifetime of all the cars affected by the regulations and reduced carbon dioxide pollution by about six billion tons.The E.P.A. on Monday — announcing its official decision to reverse the rules — said that those standards were too expensive for automakers to meet and would ultimately hurt car owners by making vehicles costlier. The agency said that low oil prices meant savings at the pump would be less than forecast, and alluded to concerns that expensive fuel-saving technology could come at the cost of investments in auto safety.The E.P.A. did not say how far the rules should be rolled back, only that it would start a new rule-making process to set “more appropriate” standards.The Trump Administration’s action on Monday marked the latest in a series of tensions between California and the federal government. The E.P.A.’s aim to revise the climate change regulations were announced the same day the Justice Department moved to block a California law that regulates the transfer of federal land.The Justice Department has also filed suit to overturn a California law intended to limit the power of the federal immigration authorities to act against people suspected of being illegal immigrants, and the federal government is seeking to make it easier to drill for oil and gas off the coast of California and other states. Furthermore, the tax overhaul law passed by Congress last year is projected to be particularly damaging for California, because it limits deductions for mortgage interest and state and local taxes, which are particularly high in the state.Sign up for our newsletter to get our latest stories about climate change — along with answers to your questions and tips on how to help.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Trump recently flew across the country to visit prototypes for a wall he would like to see built between California and Mexico, using the trip to describe California as “out of control.” And over the weekend, Mr. Trump attacked this state’s governor, Jerry Brown, in a tweet for pardoning five immigrants facing the threat of deportation.But the fight over auto emissions standards is contentious and unprecedented, said Ann Carlson, a professor of environmental law at U.C.L.A. No administration, Democratic or Republican, has challenged California’s waiver under the Clean Air Act to set its own air quality rules.“This is uncharted territory,” she said. “California has a long history of leading on auto emissions in a way that has been very productive for the country. California gets out in front and sees if regulations will work before the rest of the country adopts it,” she continued. “The administration is challenging that.”Leading Democrats condemned the move. “As usual, the administration sides with big, powerful special interests over the interests of average American families, who will pay the price for lower miles per gallon and dirtier air,” said Chuck Schumer, the Senate Democratic Leader, in a statement.In its defense of the Obama-era rules, California was joined Monday by a coalition of at least seven state attorneys general, including Eric Schneiderman of New York, as well as more than 30 mayors, who said they would “vigorously resist” any effort by the Trump administration to prevent states and cities from enforcing emissions standards. “We are committed to using our market power and our regulatory authority to ensure that the vehicle fleets deployed in our jurisdictions fully meet or exceed the promises made by the auto industry in 2012,” the coalition said.If the Trump administration were to seek a permanent revocation of California’s authority to set its own rules, legal scholars say, it would require the Clean Air Act legislation to be amended, which only Congress could do. However, the Trump administration is more likely to revoke the more limited, specific waiver granted to California to set is own tailpipe emissions rules until 2025 — something it could try to settle in court.Automakers on Monday welcomed the E.P.A.’s move. The Association of Global Automakers, which represents the world’s biggest automakers, “appreciates” the agency’s decision that adjustments to the standards are needed, said John Bozzella, the industry group’s chief executive.It is unclear how the industry would respond to a fractured American auto market if that were the result of the standoff with California. One possibility is that they sell substantially different car designs in the two markets. But they could also decide to adhere to the stricter California standards nationwide, muting the impact of the Trump administration’s rollback of federal rules.There have been some signs of discord within the auto industry over the Trump administration’s plans.Mr. Pruitt had been expected to publicly announce the effort on Tuesday at a Chevrolet dealership in suburban Virginia. But those plans were complicated by an angry pushback from some Chevy dealerships who were reluctant to see the brand associated with the announcement, according to two Chevy dealers who spoke on condition of anonymity, citing their relationship with General Motors. Late on Monday, the Virginia dealership, Pohanka Chevrolet in Chantilly, said the E.P.A. event it had planned to host had been canceled.“They don’t want the E.P.A. to highlight Chevy,” said Adam Lee, chairman of Lee Auto Malls, which runs Nissan, Honda and Chrysler dealerships in Maine, and who said he was familiar with dealers’ thinking. “They don’t want to be the bad guys.”“Trump has been saying these standards are crushing the auto industry. But we’ve had record years for the past four or five years, in terms of sales and profit,” he said. “It almost makes you think he doesn’t have the facts.”Adam Nagourney in Los Angeles and Katie Benner in Washington contributed reporting.Follow @NYTClimate on TwitterGo to Home Page »Their claim — that they are targets of a covert Russian operation to silence them because they know too much — might seem outlandish, but their case certainly includes some unusual circumstances.They have influential enemies in Russia. They were arrested with the help of a “foreign spy,” according to the Thai police, and locked up on what is a fairly minor offense: working without a permit. And the F.B.I. tried to talk to the pair, suggesting that American investigators had not dismissed their account out of hand.“They know we have more information,” one of the pair, Alexander Kirillov, 38, told The New York Times last month in an unauthorized phone call from the detention center, in Bangkok. Mr. Kirillov said his co-defendant, Anastasia Vashukevich, 27, had angered some powerful people. “They know she knows a lot,” he said. “And that’s why they made this case against us.”Ms. Vashukevich certainly knows how to get attention. In February, a top critic of Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin, released a video that included footage she recorded during a brief affair she had with a Russian aluminum tycoon while working as an escort aboard his yacht in 2016. The evidence included photos she posted of the tycoon and his guest, Sergei E. Prikhodko, a deputy prime minister, and a recording of them talking about relations between the United States and Russia.The escort and her seduction coach have been held largely incommunicado since March 5, when reporters for The Times and other news media outlets were kicked out of the detention center for speaking to them. They now face deportation and fear what might happen to them if they are sent home to Russia, where they live, or Belarus, the former Soviet republic where they grew up, which remains firmly within Russia’s influence. (Mr. Kirillov was traveling on a Russian passport.)Neither of them is accustomed to silence. They and their circle of friends say they make a habit of recording everything they do as they go about their campaign of teaching seduction techniques and trying their skills on strangers, sometimes in public.The two were arrested along with eight others on Feb. 25 when dozens of plainclothes police officers raided a workshop they were conducting for Russian tourists at a hotel in Pattaya, about 70 miles south of Bangkok.The seminar was aimed mainly at male Russian tourists and offered instruction in how to seduce women. It was not illegal.The police arrest report says that a “foreign spy” infiltrated the Russian-language seminar and provided the Royal Thai Police with information about the training.Cellphone messages show that the agent signaled the waiting officers when it was time to raid the Ibis Pattaya Hotel conference room.The work permit charge is relatively minor, and Mr. Kirillov had been conducting training sessions in Pattaya for years. But high-level officials appeared to take an unusual interest in this case: Six police generals and two colonels had responsibility for the raid, according to the arrest report.Since the arrests, the government has tried to keep a tight lid on information. Friends said they had not been allowed to visit Ms. Vashukevich and Mr. Kirillov for weeks.A law enforcement official said the F.B.I. tried to speak with the two but was not successful.A Thai police spokesman, Lt. Col. Krissana Pattanacharoen, would not comment on whether Russia was behind the arrests, but he said it was not unusual for the police to use foreign operatives.“Investigations are not one size fits all,” he said. “It depends entirely on the situation.”Few other police officials have been willing to talk about the case. The American Embassy in Bangkok declined to comment. The Russian Embassy asked that questions be submitted in writing, but did not answer them.Ms. Vashukevich, who goes by the name Nastya Rybka online and recounts her story in a book, “Who Wants to Seduce a Billionaire,” became an escort under the guidance of Mr. Kirillov, better known as Alex Lesley, who has gained popularity in Russia for his advocacy of sexual freedom.At the time of the yacht visit, Ms. Vashukevich had shaved six years off her age to pose as 19. She was sent by a Moscow modeling agency to a yacht off Norway along with six other escorts, according to her account.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.She said she followed Mr. Kirillov’s instruction to record all her interactions with her target, the yacht’s owner, who turned out to be Mr. Deripaska.She has called herself the “missing link” in the Russia investigation.Her posts from 2016 came to prominence only after Aleksei A. Navalny, a Russian opposition leader, included them in a video in early February that made accusations about official corruption. Mr. Navalny also charged that Mr. Deripaska had delivered Mr. Manafort’s campaign reports to the Kremlin.“Deripaska simply transmits this information to Putin,” Mr. Navalny said. “He’s very close to Putin after all.”Before traveling to Thailand, Mr. Kirillov grew worried about repercussions from the exposé and asked a childhood friend, Eliot Cooper, to contact United States authorities on his behalf, Mr. Cooper said.Mr. Cooper, who lives in Canada, said in a telephone interview that he called an F.B.I. hotline in February and proposed trading the recordings for the pair’s safety.He said he had told the hotline agent about one recorded conversation in which Mr. Deripaska and Mr. Prikhodko discussed wanting Mr. Trump to win.“I explained all of that to the F.B.I.,” he said. “They should have a transcript of everything and a recording of my voice.”Mr. Cooper said he had never heard back from the agency. The F.B.I. declined to comment.Mr. Cooper said that Mr. Kirillov had hidden copies and instructed associates to release them if he or Ms. Vashukevich were killed or went missing.“There is no investigation,” Mr. Cooper said. “The Americans are not interested. They want them to disappear, and Nastya in particular, because she is a living witness.”By the standards of Pattaya, a city notorious for its adult entertainment, the sex seminar for about 30 Russian tourists was tame.A hotel spokeswoman, Joyce Ong, said the workshop was run like a “normal corporate seminar,” and she denied earlier reports that the staff had called the police.None of those arrested were charged with sexual misconduct. Ms. Vashukevich was both Mr. Kirillov’s star pupil and one of the instructors at the seminars.The chief of Thailand’s Immigration Bureau, Suttipong Wongpin, said his department had restricted the pair’s visitors because letting them talk freely could harm Thailand’s relations with the United States and Russia.“The detainees,” he said, “will just say whatever they want.”Ryn Jirenuwat contributed reporting from Pattaya and Bangkok, and Adam Goldman from Washington.Go to Home Page »In recent decades, American public discourse has become hollow and shrill. Instead of morally robust debates about the common good, we have shouting matches on talk radio and cable television, and partisan food fights in Congress. People argue past one another, without really listening or seeking to persuade.This condition has diminished the public’s regard for political parties and politicians, and also given rise to a danger: A politics empty of moral argument creates a vacuum of meaning that is often filled by the vengeful certitudes of strident nationalism. This danger now hovers over American politics. More than a year into the presidency of Donald Trump, however, liberals and progressives have yet to articulate a politics of the common good adequate to the country’s predicament.Reich’s book diagnoses the decline of the common good in American life and suggests ways of restoring it. He begins by observing that even the term has fallen into disuse: “The common good is no longer a fashionable idea. The phrase is rarely uttered today, not even by commencement speakers and politicians.”Reich defines the common good as consisting in “our shared values about what we owe one another as citizens who are bound together in the same society.” What binds us as Americans, he argues, is not birth or ethnicity but a commitment to fundamental ideals and principles: respect for the rule of law and democratic institutions, toleration of our differences and belief in equal political rights and equal opportunity.Reich attributes the erosion of the common good in recent decades to the breakdown of moral restraint in the pursuit of power and money. In Washington, the “whatever-it-takes-to-win politics” that began in the Nixon years has led to the hyperpartisanship of today. In the corporate world, the single-minded pursuit of shareholder value has displaced the older notion that companies are responsible for the well-being of workers, customers and the communities they serve.The unbridled pursuit of power and profit has brought an enormous flow of corporate money into politics. The result is a rigged system that perpetuates inequality, enables economic elites to manipulate the rules of the game to their own advantage, undermines trust in institutions and promotes attitudes of unrestrained self-seeking in social life generally.There are several ways to revive the common good, Reich suggests. One is to recover the notion of leadership as trusteeship. Corporate executives should recognize responsibilities beyond maximizing profits, and public officials should resist the scorched-earth, anything-goes approach to politics. The essence of Trump’s failure as a leader, according to Reich, is “not that he has chosen one set of policies over another, or has divided rather than united Americans, or even that he has behaved in childish and vindictive ways unbecoming a president. It is that he has sacrificed the processes and institutions of American democracy to achieve his goals.”Reich also calls for a greater emphasis on civic education, including two years of mandatory public service, and efforts to resurrect truth from the miasma of political deceit and fake news. Perhaps the most distinctive measure Reich proposes is the redeployment of honor and shame. Rather than honor people for their wealth or celebrity, we should honor those who display genuine virtue, like whistle-blowers, firefighters, social workers and soldiers — people who perform hard or risky tasks that serve the common good. And we should shame those who, however wealthy, achieve their status through exploitative business practices or morally dubious financial dealings.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Against the grain of much liberal thinking, Reich acknowledges that promoting civic virtue requires being judgmental about what moral attitudes and qualities of character our public life should affirm and promote. This recognition of the role of moral judgment in politics is an important corrective to the liberal wariness of bringing morality into the public square.Reich’s proposals would make a good starting point for a new progressive political project. What is puzzling, however, is his insistence that a politics of the common good can or should be nonpartisan. Time and again, he draws a sharp distinction between the common good he wants to revive and the competing conceptions of the common good at stake in everyday political debate — about tax policy, health care, the environment and so on. He insists his book is not about what messages Democrats or Republicans should convey or what policies they should pursue, but rather about restoring our shared commitment to democratic norms and principles. “It’s our agreement to these principles that connects us, not agreement about where these principles lead.”As these examples suggest, the nonpartisan, above-the-fray conception of the common good that Reich proposes may be too high-minded to reinvigorate American public discourse in the way he wants. In the face of President Trump’s serial violations of democratic norms, it is tempting to appeal to Americans, whatever their party or political persuasion, to reaffirm certain principles that all can share. But such principles, if truly detached from debate about where they lead, are so abstract that they can only serve as hortatory fare for commencement addresses and the Fourth of July. The best hope for reviving the common good is to invigorate moral argument in the messy, contentious domain of democratic politics.Michael J. Sandel teaches political philosophy at Harvard and is the author, most recently, of “What Money Can’t Buy: The Moral Limits of Markets.”We earn an affiliate commission with each book purchase, which helps support our journalism at The New York Times.Go to Home Page »JERUSALEM —  Israel announced a deal with the U.N. on Monday to resettle African migrants in Western nations, but hours later put the agreement on hold.Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had announced the deal on national TV, saying Israel agreed to cancel the planned expulsion of tens of thousands of African migrants. He said the deal with the United Nations called for sending half of them to Western nations and allowing the rest to remain in Israel.Late Monday, Netanyahu said he was "suspending" the deal in order to discuss the arrangement Tuesday with Israeli residents of south Tel Aviv areas with large migrant populations."After meeting with the representatives I will re-examine the agreement again," he said.Under the deal, roughly half of the 35,000 migrants living in Israel would be resettled in the West. But the rest would stay in Israel.The migrant community is concentrated in south Tel Aviv, angering longtime Israeli residents of the working-class area. Israeli hard-liners had criticized the deal for allowing so many Africans to remain.The late-night turnaround threw into limbo the surprise agreement, which had finally offered a solution to an issue that has divided Israel for a decade. The deportation plan had been widely criticized at home and abroad, even by some of Israel's closest supporters."It's a good agreement," Netanyahu told reporters earlier in the day. "It enables us to solve this problem in a way that serves, protects the interests of the state of Israel and gives a solution to the residents of southern Tel Aviv and other neighborhoods, and also for the people who came into Israel."Most of the African migrants are from war-torn Sudan and Eritrea, the latter having one of the world's worst human rights records. The migrants say they are asylum-seekers fleeing danger and persecution, while Israeli leaders have claimed they are merely job seekers.The Africans started arriving in 2005, after neighboring Egypt violently quashed a refugee demonstration and word spread of safety and job opportunities in Israel. Tens of thousands crossed the porous desert border with Egypt before Israel completed a barrier in 2012 that stopped the influx.Israel has struggled with what to do with those already in the country, alternating between plans to deport them and offering them menial jobs in hotels and local municipalities.Due to the large migrant presence, poor neighborhoods in south Tel Aviv have become known as "Little Africa." Working-class Jewish residents have complained of rising crime and pressed the government to take action.But the migrants also found wide pockets of support, with many Israelis arguing that the country, founded in the wake of the Holocaust, had a special responsibility to help those in need.Thousands of Africans and their Israeli supporters held a demonstration in February claiming the deportation plan amounted to racism. Groups of Israeli doctors, academics, poets, Holocaust survivors, rabbis and pilots also objected to the planned expulsion.Critics at home and in the Jewish American community had called the government's deportation plans unethical and a stain on Israel's image as a refuge for Jewish migrants.Before Monday's announcement, the government had remained steadfast, bristling at what it considered cynical comparisons to the plight of Jewish refugees during World War II.Over the years, Israel threatened the migrants with prison, placed them in a now-shuttered desert detention camp and tried to persuade them to leave by offering them money and a one-way ticket to Africa. After those options failed, it announced plans to begin deporting them to an unidentified African country — believed to be Rwanda or Uganda — on April 1.Netanyahu said the plan was scrapped after it became clear that the "third country," which he again did not identify, could not handle the influx."From the moment in the past few weeks that it became clear that the third country as an option doesn't exist, we basically entered a trap where all of them would remain," he said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.He described Monday's compromise as the best available option.In his Facebook post announcing the deal's suspension, Netanyahu accused the New Israel Fund, a liberal advocacy group, and "elements" in the European Union of derailing a deal with Rwanda.Migrants who earlier agreed to return to Africa had reported abuses and broken promises after arriving in Rwanda. In some cases, their travel papers were confiscated or they were quickly sent to Uganda. Both Rwanda and Uganda denied having any agreement with Israel.Meir Ben-Shabbat, Netanyahu's national security adviser, said the U.N. plan would be carried out in three phases over five years.In all, the United Nations would resettle about 16,250 people, while Israel would absorb the same number. "A committee will be formed in order to identify them and find agreed solutions," Ben-Shabbat said.Shlomo Mor-Yosef, a senior official at Israel's Interior Ministry, said migrants would be taken in throughout the European Union as well as in Canada and the United States.Italy and Germany, two countries identified by Netanyahu as likely destinations, both denied having any agreement in place.Canadian officials said they were in touch with Israel about the matter. Mathieu Genest, a spokesman for Canada's immigration minister, said his government was reviewing over 1,800 requests by Eritreans to resettle in Canada. He noted that Canada has pledged to resettle a total of 4,000 Eritrean refugees by the end of the year.As part of the framework, Israel said it would rehabilitate and develop affected neighborhoods in south Tel Aviv, while also resettling African migrants elsewhere in the country.The U.N. refugee agency said it signed a framework of common understanding "to promote solutions for thousands of Eritreans and Sudanese living in Israel." The UNHCR said it would work to relocate about 16,000 Sudanese and Eritrean nationals and that others would receive "suitable legal status in Israel."Monim Haroon, a 28-year-old university student in Jerusalem who fled Darfur five years ago, expressed relief after the deal was announced."As asylum seekers we don't care where we are going to be as long as it is a safe place, and these countries are willing to protect us and we can live with human dignity," he said.In a joint statement, a group of Israeli rights organizations praised Monday's agreement and vowed to monitor it to make sure it was respected."We are extremely happy for the refugees," said Sigal Rozen, of the Hotline for Refugees and Migrants. "We really hope that the Israeli government will stop abusing them and will respect their rights as refugees."Mark Hetfield, president of HIAS, a Jewish nonprofit in the U.S. that protects refugees, praised the deal as "responsible" and "consistent with Jewish values." He said the group would work with Israel and resettlement countries to aid the migrants."The timing of this announcement, during Passover, could not have been more appropriate as these asylum seekers, like our ancestors, all crossed the Sinai in search of freedom," he said.Not everyone was pleased. Cabinet Minister Naftali Bennett, leader of the nationalist Jewish Home party, said the deal turned Israel into a "paradise for infiltrators." He called for the plan to be brought to the Cabinet for a vote.___Associated Press writers David McHugh in Frankfurt, Colleen Barry in Milan and Rob Gillies in Toronto contributed to this report.Go to Home Page »Good morning.Signs of an assassin in Britain, a thaw in Uzbekistan and a rebel queen in Denmark. Here’s the latest:His comments, most delivered via Twitter, came on a holiday weekend at his Palm Beach resort, Mar-a-Lago. Among those accompanying him was Stephen Miller, a senior policy adviser who has shaped much of the administration’s hard-line stance on immigration._____Since the poison, Novichok, is so potent and dangerous, the British authorities suspect that only a highly trained professional — on orders from the highest levels of the Russian government — could have administered it to the former Russian double agent and his daughter.That theory is raising questions about the role of Russia’s president, Vladimir Putin, in the attack, which has raised tensions between Russia and the West to their highest point since the Cold War._____It’s still too dangerous to utter the name of the country’s vicious security service in public, but human rights activists say repression has eased, if only slightly._____• A “rebel queen.”_____He cited a need to end the “carnage” in “the beloved and long-suffering land of Syria” and urged “reconciliation” in the Middle East. The pope also baptized eight people into the Roman Catholic faith, including a Nigerian migrant who has been called a hero in Italy for foiling a robbery in Rome.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.The tradition dates from 1878, when Rutherford B. Hayes was president, though some accounts suggest that informal egg-rolling parties began under Lincoln. Above, the Egg Roll in 1929.The first lady, Melania Trump, will host guests who won a public lottery held in February. In the signature event, children guide the eggs across the lawn with a wooden spoon. There will be live music and other activities, including a reading nook staffed by White House figures like Kellyanne Conway, the president’s counselor, and Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the press secretary. New this year: bowling.The White House says that more than 21,000 guests attended last year. That was down from about 37,000 in recent years. They expect 30,000 people today.Karen Zraick contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.An earlier version of this briefing misspelled the name of the nerve agent used in the attack on a former Russian double agent. It is Novichok, not Novichek.Follow Dan Levin on Twitter: @globaldan.See More »Go to Home Page »HOSSZUHETENY, Hungary —  The pre-election fanfare over Hungary's stellar growth and surging wages hardly registers with Laszlo Reisch, an employee in a government works program who is stuck on the wrong side of a growing social divide.Prime Minister Viktor Orban is widely credited for putting public finances on a sustainable path after 2010 to save Hungary from what he said would have been a Greek-style economic collapse under a tower of debt.Fueled by a construction boom, foreign investment and European Union funds, the economy grew by 4 percent in 2017, the fastest pace in three years -- good news for the 54-year-old premier as he targets a third term on April 8.The turnaround in headline economic figures has not benefited all Hungarians, however.The introduction of a flat tax, curbs to social benefits and Orban's focus on building up the middle class means the gap between rich and poor in Hungary is widening, economists say.(Graphic: https://tmsnrt.rs/2IS7mBl)Reisch, a 48-year-old father of two, said he can feel it."Together with my wife's salary we can get by so that we do not need to go sifting through the garbage," he said, taking the sun on the porch of an old farmhouse in southern Hungary where he lives with his wife and son.His daughter is among the millions of eastern Europeans who have moved abroad in search of higher pay."There are people in this world today who can make enormous amounts of dough. They are extremely rich," Reich said. Then, "there are people like us, living from one day to the next, and there is another, poorer set of people, who cannot even subsist."Even so, Reisch says he will vote for Orban's Fidesz party because there is no viable alternative. He is concerned about economic uncertainty under a new government, as well as immigration, a focal point of Orban's re-election campaign.Reisch has been employed in the public works program for the past year and a half and is now working on renovating an empty house bought by the local council.The program is the government's main tool to boost employment among mostly low-skilled Hungarians but the 165,000 it employs have missed out on double-digit wage rises because their salaries were frozen at 2017 levels, meaning their relative income has deteriorated steadily over the years.In theory, the freeze should have nudged people toward the private sector, but government data shows few of the participants have found long-term jobs elsewhere and many remain stuck, lacking the sufficient skills, or savings, to move ahead.Most of the participants have only a primary education so the government runs training courses, partly financed by the EU, alongside.Reisch, who used to work as a car mechanic, has been trying to get a job as a driver but says he cannot put aside enough money to pay for the new certification required.Monthly pay under the scheme is just over half the minimum wage at 81,530 forints before tax but it gets hit by the same 15-percent income tax rate applied to the highest salaries.The flat tax and cuts in jobless and other benefits have contributed to what the European Commission said in a 2017 report is one of the biggest rises in inequality across the EU since the financial crisis.The government's revenues from consumption-related taxes, such as VAT and excise taxes on tobacco and alcohol, relative to household spending is the highest in the EU, exceeding levels even in Denmark, which has much higher living standards.PROGRESSAn analysis of the flat tax regime by economists Csaba Toth and Peter Virovacz has concluded that its biggest beneficiaries are the most affluent, childless taxpayers, although families with children also benefit to varying degrees.The government said real wages of families with two children have risen by nearly 50 percent since 2010, while the increase for families with three children was 65 percent.Orban has also launched a housing scheme for families with three children that includes a 10-million-forint grant and a subsidized loan as part of efforts to lift birth rates. Families with fewer children are eligible for lower amounts.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.One woman told Reuters she bought a bigger house near Budapest for herself and her two small children using a 1.5-million-forint grant."I think our family has managed to make progress over the past years," said the woman, who like several people interviewed did not want to be identified talking about their personal finances. She said the grant allowed her family to upgrade earlier than expected. "I am grateful for that."As home prices surge, however, richer families with three children have ended up being the main beneficiaries of the home reform, Hungarian thinktank GKI said in a recent report.That's because Orban's targeted reforms are most advantageous for those who are in a better financial situation to start with, according to GKI. The government argues that will trickle down and creates incentives for poorer people to improve their skills and education. But nearly a million poor Hungarians have seen their share of income decline since 2010, it said.The latest available Eurostat data showed Hungary ranked last among its Central European peers -- Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovakia -- in terms of per capita gross domestic product in 2016.Hungary's relative position within the group has also deteriorated since Orban took power. Of the four countries, only Hungary exceeded the EU average percentage of those at risk of poverty or social exclusion, based on 2016 data.SECURITYMost polls indicate Fidesz still enjoys a wide lead over its rivals even though a recent survey by thinktank Zavecz Research showed a majority of respondents have experienced no improvement in their financial situation over the past years.Less than a third of people expected their financial prospects to improve in the years ahead according to the poll, while just over half of respondents expected no change. The migrant issue trumped all others in the survey.Veteran Fidesz lawmaker Janos Hargitai carried the district around Hosszuheteny comfortably in 2014, bagging more votes than his main leftist and far-right challengers combined."People strive for security in every regard," social scientist Tibor Zavecz said, adding that bickering among Orban's challengers probably turned away potential supporters."They portray an image, even to poor people, that questions whether they would be able to make decisions in power if they cannot even agree in opposition," Zavecz said. "Even a low level of security is worth more than any type of uncertainty."Attila Racz, 45, has been employed in the public works program for the past five years. He used to work as a joiner but is now doing administrative tasks at the local government due to an illness, which forced him off the job.Racz and his wife, who works in a tobacco factory in nearby Pecs, live on the outskirts of Hosszuheteny, where they herd goats to boost the family budget.The family has four children and sees "not much of a prospect" for a change in their standard of living, said Racz. He was nonetheless grateful for his job."This does not make us rich, but it helps you feel a bit more useful, tidying your own village, working in your own village and trying to help others," he said. Racz said he would vote, but did not reveal his preference."There are good aspects of this government and there are bad. It is almost like this public works program. You cannot benefit all people."(Editing by Sonya Hepinstall)Go to Home Page »Good morning. Pope Francis calls for peace, Kim Jong-un takes in some K-pop, and Tesla faces more trouble. Here’s what you need to know:His comments, most delivered via Twitter, came on a holiday weekend at his Palm Beach resort, Mar-a-Lago. Among those accompanying him was Stephen Miller, a senior policy adviser who has shaped much of the administration’s hard-line stance on immigration._____And a retired U.S. lieutenant general who led the war effort in Afghanistan from 2003 to 2005 said advanced equipment, like drones and precision weapons, is being seized by extremist groups in other global conflict zones.“It’s going to change how we operate,” he said._____At least three soldiers and four civilians also died, and about 70 other people were reported wounded.__________He cited a need to end the “carnage” in “the beloved and long-suffering land of Syria” and urged “reconciliation” in the Middle East. The pope also pressed for “the fruits of dialogue” to defuse tensions on the Korean Peninsula, above, where 10,000 Christians gathered in Seoul to pray.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.The tradition dates to 1878, when Rutherford B. Hayes was president, though some accounts suggest that informal egg-rolling parties began under Lincoln. Above, the Egg Roll in 1929.The first lady, Melania Trump, will host guests who won a public lottery held in February. In the signature activity, children guide the eggs across the lawn with a wooden spoon. There will be live music and other activities, including a reading nook staffed by White House figures like Kellyanne Conway, the president’s counselor, and Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the press secretary. New this year: bowling.The White House says that more than 21,000 guests attended last year. That was down from about 37,000 in recent years. They expect 30,000 people today.Karen Zraick contributed reporting._____See More »Go to Home Page »ATLANTA —  Women running for governor in Wisconsin and Maryland breastfeed their infants in campaign videos. Another in Georgia tells voters that "the folks who have held the office of governor don't look like me."The record number of women expected to run for office this year are already breaking barriers, upending traditional campaigning by emphasizing their gender as they introduce themselves to an electorate they hope is eager for change."Some say no man can beat Larry Hogan," Maryland Democratic candidate Krish Vignarajah says into the camera as she breastfeeds her daughter. "Well, I'm no man. I'm a mom, I'm a woman, and I want to be your next governor."Experts are predicting a historic wave of female candidates, driven in part by Democrats frustrated over the election of President Donald Trump and actions by his administration and Republicans in Congress on issues such as health care and immigration. The Women's March, the #MeToo movement and the surprising success of women running for the Virginia Legislature in 2017 have kept the momentum.Vignarajah, a lawyer and former policy director for Michelle Obama, is one of seven Democrats and the only woman running in the Maryland gubernatorial primary. She said the 2016 presidential election was a "rude awakening of what happens when we become complacent" and that her video was designed to show the everyday life of many moms."Historically speaking, women were perhaps more hesitant to highlight their womanhood," said Vignarajah, a Sri Lankan immigrant. "For me, I think it's an asset."The candidates say their message to voters is that electing more women to office is not merely about representation. It's about a change in priorities so that more emphasis is placed on issues such as education, health care, early childhood development, workplace equality and paid family leave."I would like our state to be the best place to raise a family and the best place to grow a business, and I think we can achieve that," said Kelda Roys, a former state lawmaker seeking the Democratic nomination to challenge Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, a two-term Republican.In her ad, Roys highlights her efforts in the state legislature to ban the chemical known as BPA from baby bottles and cups in the state. In the middle of her speech, her youngest daughter begins crying and Roys discreetly lifts her sweater to begin breastfeeding. Roys says she didn't intend to have that moment as part of the video but realized after she saw an initial outtake that it made sense."This is part of who I am, and I think it's an honest portrayal of what my life is like," Roys said. "Men running for office have always enjoyed pretty wide latitude to present themselves as whole people, where for women there has always been pressure to conform to a pretty narrow archetype. And I feel like that's changing."Whether all this enthusiasm translates into a sea change in the number of women elected to office remains to be seen. Currently, women account for a fifth of all U.S. representatives and senators, and one in four state lawmakers. There are six female governors.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.So far, 220 women have filed to run for the U.S. House or Senate this year, with candidate filing deadlines still pending in half the states, according to the Center for American Women and Politics at Rutgers University. The record is 334 female candidates set in 2012. The center's experts say nearly 500 women are expected to run for House and Senate this year."For women, the expectations of gender and candidacies have often conflicted," said Kelly Dittmar, an assistant professor of political science at Rutgers. "They spent a lot of time talking about how tough they are, how strong they are and how qualified they are to hold office."But female candidates have grown more comfortable in recent years branching out, Dittmar said. In New Hampshire's hotly contested U.S. Senate race in 2016, both Republican Kelly Ayotte and Democrat Maggie Hassan highlighted their roles as mothers and featured their children prominently in ads. Ayotte's daughter narrated a campaign ad highlighting her mom's credentials.Some of this year's ads are intensely personal. Before losing her primary bid for Illinois' 4th Congressional District, Democratic candidate Sol Flores spoke about how she fought off a sexual predator as a child and how she has dedicated her life to helping children at risk.Katie Hill, one of several Democrats seeking to challenge Rep. Steve Knight in California's 25th Congressional District, has a nearly five-minute video on her website detailing the time when she was 19 years old and considered having an abortion before suffering a miscarriage."No one can really understand what it's like to be faced with that kind of a choice, and it's a decision that only a woman in that situation can make," Hill says in the video. "The government most certainly can't make it for her."In a recent video, Georgia gubernatorial candidate Stacey Evans is shown walking the halls of the state Capitol holding hands with her young daughter as she prepares to file paperwork to qualify for the Democratic primary in May. The daughter of a single mother who grew up poor in rural Georgia, Evans says her top priorities are making sure children of all backgrounds have access to quality early childhood education, a strong public school system and financial support for college."I don't have to worry about my daughter being taken care of during the day, but a lot of mothers have that struggle," Evans said. "I want to make sure that all families have access to the resources they need to live a high-quality life and to go out and be successful."___Associated Press writer Courtney Columbus in Baltimore contributed to this report.___Follow Christina Almeida Cassidy on Twitter at http://twitter.com/AP_Christina.Go to Home Page »Good morning.Kim Jong-un’s power play, a French march against hate and a Balkan design facepalm. Here’s the latest:_____• “In France, we kill grandmothers because they’re Jewish.”She was stabbed 11 times and partly burned, and a neighbor is one of the suspects. He reportedly said “God is great” in Arabic during the killing, which the authorities have labeled a hate crime, renewing concerns about a persistent strain of anti-Semitism in France._____The announcement narrows the possibilities of how the victims came into contact with Novichok, a lethal toxin developed by Soviet scientists.__________An ambitious building project in Skopje, the capital of Macedonia, was intended to evoke an ancient past._____In the lawsuit, a French waiter who was fired for being combative and aggressive said his former bosses were discriminating against his culture and heritage. (Above, a waiter at a restaurant in Paris.)What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.On this day in 1961, the 23rd Amendment to the U.S. Constitution was approved by the required three-fourths of the states, giving Washingtonians the right to vote for president and vice president for the first time in more than 160 years.At the time, the push to give the vote to the district, with its large African-American population, became caught up in the civil rights movement. The amendment was opposed in the South, where Tennessee was the only state to ratify it.Democrats have since been able to count on the district’s three electoral votes, which have been cast for each of the party’s presidential candidates, starting with Lyndon Johnson in 1964.Although the district’s residents have a say at the White House, they lack a full voice in Congress, where their representative does not have full voting rights.Chris Stanford contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.See More »Go to Home Page »Supported byThe economics of home buying are getting interesting, thanks to higher mortgage rates, tax changes and a supply-demand imbalance.This spring’s home sales season is shaping up to be the most interesting one in years.The housing market will depend on which opposing force proves more powerful: long-term fundamentals of supply and demand, or near-term ripples emanating from Washington and Wall Street.For a family resolving to pay $2,000 a month for a home mortgage and not a penny more, the math works out that they can afford to borrow $397,000 today, down from $430,000 in September.The math around affordability is a little more complicated than that — you must also consider the potential tax deductibility of mortgage interest and how much cash a buyer has available for a down payment.“If shortage of inventory is a headwind for housing, mortgage rates are a gentle breeze by comparison,” said Nela Richardson, chief economist at Redfin.The United States tax code subsidizes homeownership in ways large and small. (Whether those subsidies encourage greater homeownership or just drive up prices is a different matter.) But the tax law enacted in December reins in several of those advantages.Most directly, the law reduces how much mortgage debt will benefit from tax-deductible interest payments; that number was previously $1 million and is now $750,000. Also, property taxes previously had no limits in being deductible against federal income tax, but now the deduction of property and other state and local taxes is capped at $10,000.Both provisions will most affect upper- and upper-middle-income families in states with relatively high housing prices and high state and local taxes: Think Massachusetts, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Maryland and California.For example, a married couple in Connecticut with a $300,000 annual income aiming to borrow $1 million toward a $1.2 million house would be able to deduct about $33,000 in mortgage interest in the first year of their loan, compared with about $44,000 under the previous law. Because they would be in the 24 percent federal marginal tax bracket, buying that house would cost them about $2,650 more in the first year of the mortgage after taxes than under previous law.(Our hypothetical family may not be losing out as much as those numbers suggest because they would have faced the alternative minimum tax under the old tax system — evidence of just how complex these calculations can be.)But Mark Zandi, the company’s chief economist, emphasizes that this reduction should play out over a couple of years, and that it is more likely to slow the rate of price gains rather than cut prices outright. For example, if prices were on track to rise 5 percent a year in 2018 and 2019, they might instead rise 3 percent a year.“The tax law change and higher mortgage rates should moderate the prices buyers are able to pay,” Mr. Zandi said. “I think the rate of house price growth will soften.”Those developments on interest rates and tax policy seem likely to be drags on home buying. But they come amid a housing boom rooted in a major imbalance between the number of people looking to buy, especially in cities with strong job growth, and the inventory available.But the rising demand has not been accompanied by increase in supply.Builders started work on 1.3 million new housing units in 2017, which is up a lot from the depressed levels of the 2008 recession but still below the 1.5 million average between 1959 and 2007.The home-building industry attributes this to the constraints it faces.“Longer-term demographics are telling us that every year there are going to be more people entering the stage of life where they want to get married, have kids and buy a home, and they’re going to be looking for housing to accommodate that stage of life,” said Skylar Olsen, a senior economist at Zillow. “The fundamentals are pushing up against the reality of so much pent-up demand.”In other words, as long as there are more families looking for a place to live than new homes in place to accommodate them, the pressure on prices and sales will be upward, no matter what happens as the market adjusts to higher mortgage rates and tax changes.CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSNEW YORK —  A majority of young people believe President Donald Trump is racist, dishonest and "mentally unfit" for office, according to a new survey that finds the nation's youngest potential voters are more concerned about the Republican's performance in the White House than older Americans.The poll from The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research and MTV found that just 33 percent of Americans between the ages of 15 and 34 approve of Trump's job performance.That's 9 points lower than all adults, who were asked the same question on a separate AP-NORC survey taken this month."Trump doesn't care about us," said 27-year-old Nicole Martin, an African-American graduate student in Missoula, Montana. "I'm not going to say he's unfit like he has schizophrenia. I do kind of think he's twisted in the head. He just comes off as disgusting to me."The survey is the first in a series of polls designed to highlight the voices of the youngest generation of voters. The respondents, all of whom will be old enough to vote when Trump seeks re-election in 2020, represent the most diverse generation in American history.They would occupy the largest share of the electorate — if they vote at the same rate as older Americans. But history suggests they are also the least likely to vote this fall. In the 2014 midterm elections, for example, only about 20 percent of 18-29 year-olds cast ballots.Asked if she will vote this fall, when the president's party, but not the president himself, will be on the ballot, Martin said: "I haven't really thought about it."Still, there are signs that seven months before the midterm elections, young people appear to be more engaged in politics. Nearly half of younger Americans, 47 percent, say they're personally paying closer attention to politics since Trump's election; 2 in 10 say they're engaging in political activism more than before.High school students led massive protests nationwide last weekend that called for gun control in the wake of the recent school shooting in Parkland, Florida, that left 17 dead, and the poll found that young people are more focused about guns than any other issue. Twenty-one percent say the nation's gun laws are their top concern, while 15 percent cited the economy and 8 percent said social inequality.There is widespread agreement among young people about Trump, with more than 7 in 10 saying he "doesn't reflect my personal values.""He doesn't seem to be really for women. He doesn't seem to be for Black Lives Matter. He doesn't seem to be for DACA," said Meghan Carnes, 23, of New York City, referring to a program to allow young immigrants to stay in this country. "He doesn't seem to be for the kids worried about guns. It's extremely disappointing to have a president who doesn't seem to care."The new poll finds that 60 percent describe Trump as "mentally unfit," 62 percent call him "generally dishonest," and 63 percent say he "is a racist." In a mid-February AP-NORC poll, 57 percent of all adults in the U.S. said they believe Trump is racist.Spencer Buettgenbach, 23, of Topeka, Kansas, said the Republican president has emboldened attitudes about racism, sexism and homophobia by "normalizing abusive talk."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."Especially living in Kansas — for me as a gay man — it's kind of scary," he said. "He's like the world's worst boogeyman."The poll also found that young people overwhelmingly support watching out for minorities: 69 percent favor a pathway to legal status for immigrants brought to the country illegally as children, 59 percent favor protecting the rights of LGBT citizens, and 58 percent say the same for Muslims.Among other issues young voters feel the strongest about:— 76 percent want the government to allow them to refinance student loan debt at lower rates— 67 percent want a health care system in which "the government provides health insurance to all Americans."— 60 percent want the government to take steps to address climate change.A narrow majority, 55 percent, favor legalizing the recreational use of marijuana. Just under half, 46 percent, believe abortion should be legal "in most cases," with 26 percent opposed.Trump's domestic priorities are far less popular among young people. Only 22 percent favor the Republican-backed tax overhaul, while 40 percent are opposed. More than half oppose construction of a wall along the Mexican border to curb illegal immigration. Thirty-six percent want to increase defense and military spending, though just 27 percent say they're opposed.Kristopher Cochran, 22, a conservative who voted for Trump, said he's "neutral" about the president's job performance so far. He suggested Trump is being treated unfairly by the media — an opinion shared by 54 percent of young Americans.Cochran, a mechanical engineering student at Virginia Tech, dismissed concerns about Trump's mental fitness."If he was mentally unfit, I don't think he would have made as much money as he did, but I can see why people would think that," he said. "I'm not a fan of his incessant need for Twitter. He acts like a child."Cochran is not alone in his strong feelings about the president's use of social media. Asked how they would advise Trump on Twitter, 49 percent said they'd tell him to "delete your account" and 37 percent said "take it down a notch."Just 13 percent said, "Keep doing what you're doing."___The Youth Political Pulse poll of 1,027 young Americans age 15-34 was conducted Feb. 22 to March 9 by the AP-NORC Center and MTV. The poll was conducted using NORC's probability-based AmeriSpeak panel, which is designed to be representative of the U.S. population. The margin of sampling error for all respondents is plus or minus 4.2 percentage points.___Online:AP-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research: http://www.apnorc.orgGo to Home Page »Supported byOpinionFrançois Hollande, then president, echoing a chorus of European leaders, pushed back hard, appealing to his country’s Jews: “Your place is here, in your home. France is your country.”Is it?This is a question worth seriously asking following the barbaric murder last week of Mireille Knoll.Ms. Knoll, 85, believed Mr. Hollande. France was her place, her home, her country. And Paris was her city.She remained in her apartment in the 11th arrondissement when, suffering from Parkinson’s disease, she was stabbed 11 times. Her apartment was then set on fire. Firefighters found the burned body on Friday night.Parisian authorities are investigating the murder as being motivated by the “membership, real or supposed, of the victim of a particular religion.” But euphemisms should have no place in describing the nature of Mireille Knoll’s death. She was murdered by men apparently animated by the same hatred that drove Hitler.Two suspects, a 29-year-old and a 21-year-old, have been arrested. The older man is a neighbor Ms. Knoll has known since he was a child. The younger, according to reports, is homeless. One of the suspects told the investigators that the other had shouted “Allahu Akbar” while killing Ms. Knoll, according to Le Monde. (A lawyer for the Knoll family, Gilles-William Goldnadel, confirmed that in a phone call.) On Tuesday, Gérard Collomb, the interior minister, told Parliament that one of the attackers had told the other: “She’s a Jew. She must have money.”It’s a neighborhood that has already borne witness to a nearly identical crime. Almost exactly a year ago, a 65-year-old Jewish widow named Sarah Halimi was murdered by her neighbor, 27-year-old Kobili Traoré. Other neighbors said they heard Mr. Traoré scream “Allahu Akbar” as he beat Ms. Halimi, a retired doctor, to near death in the early hours of April 4, 2017. He then threw her body into the courtyard below.This time, French authorities have been quick to call the crime by its proper name. On Monday, President Emmanuel Macron tweeted: “I would like to express my shock at the appalling crime committed against Mrs. Knoll. I reaffirm my absolute determination to fight anti-Semitism.” On Wednesday, he said that she was murdered “because she was Jewish” at a tribute to a police officer killed in an Islamist attack. Mr. Macron has been widely praised by the country’s Jewish community for his moral clarity in describing anti-Zionism as a “reinvented form of anti-Semitism.”Anti-Semitism was supposed to be a disease of the far right. But the people actually killing Jews in France these days are not members of the National Front. They are Islamists.“The major crimes against the Jewish community — Ilan Halimi, the Toulouse killings, the Hyper Cacher killings, Sarah Halimi — all of them have all been carried out by radicalized Muslims,” Robert Ejnes, the executive director of CRIF, an umbrella organization of French Jewish groups, told me in a call from Paris. “These young people have French identity cards, but they hate what France stands for. This is the nature of the problem we are facing. And it’s very hard to talk about.”In the wake of Ms. Knoll’s murder, all of the usual lines are being repeated. Anti-Semitism is the hatred that never dies. Violence that begins with the Jews never ends with them.All of this is true. What’s also true is that anti-Semitism is the oldest hatred in the world because individual people have sustained it in every generation. It cannot be defeated until we look these people and their ideologies in the face.Every French Jew — like millions of Jews throughout history — will have to make their own choice about whether to leave their homes for safer shores or to stay and fight for their rightful place in a country that prides itself on being a beacon of liberty and fraternity. But perhaps the better part of wisdom is with one of Mireille Knoll’s granddaughters, Noa Goldfarb. Following her grandmother’s murder, she wrote in a Facebook post from Israel: “Twenty years ago, I left Paris knowing that neither my future nor that of the Jewish People is to be found there.”CollapseSEE MY OPTIONSOn the morning after the 2016 election, a group of nearly a dozen ABC executives gathered at their Burbank, Calif., headquarters to determine what Donald J. Trump’s victory meant for the network’s future.“We looked at each other and said, ‘There’s a lot about this country we need to learn a lot more about, here on the coasts,’” Ben Sherwood, the president of Disney and ABC’s television group, said in an interview.They began asking themselves which audiences they were not serving well and what they could do to better live up to the company name — the American Broadcasting Company. By the meeting’s end, they had in place the beginnings of a revised strategy that led the network to reboot a past hit centered on a struggling Midwestern family, a show that had a chance to appeal to the voters who had helped put Mr. Trump in the White House.On Tuesday night, the strategy proved more successful than the executives had hoped: “Roseanne” premiered to the highest ratings for any network sitcom in almost four years.The show’s approach to sociopolitical issues — its star and co-creator, Roseanne Barr, plays an unabashed Trump supporter who spars with her liberal sister, played by Laurie Metcalf — especially reverberated among heartland viewers. The top markets for the debut read like a political pollster’s red-state checklist: Cincinnati; Kansas City, Mo.; Tulsa, Okla. Liberal enclaves like New York and Los Angeles did not crack the top 20.“We had spent a lot of time looking for diverse voices in terms of people of color and people from different religions and even people with a different perspective on gender,” Ms. Dungey said. “But we had not been thinking nearly enough about economic diversity and some of the other cultural divisions within our own country. That’s been something we’ve been really looking at with eyes open since that time.”As the Nielsen numbers for “Roseanne” rolled in, ABC executives went from gobsmacked — Mr. Sherwood said he thought the early figures he had seen were a mistake — to euphoric.“People gather round and they see themselves in this family,” Mr. Sherwood said. “It speaks to a large number of people in the country who don’t see themselves on television very often.”By Thursday, this dusted-off sitcom centered on a highly opinionated matriarch had become a flash point in the nation’s culture wars. It had also spurred a cathartic response from many conservatives, who counted its opening-night success as their own.“Look at Roseanne! Look at her ratings!” President Trump told the crowd of union workers, adding: “They were unbelievable! Over 18 million people! And it was about us!”Right-wing pundits praised the show as a mic-drop moment for conservatives weary of being portrayed unflatteringly or ignored altogether on network shows. On Fox News, Sean Hannity congratulated her on her “massive audience,” and Laura Ingraham approvingly played a “Roseanne” clip, saying, “Funny what can happen when Hollywood makes programming that’s not condescending toward half the country.”On Thursday, via Twitter, Mr. Hannity invited Ms. Barr to guest-host his show. “DM me,” Ms. Barr replied.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.On television, however, she plays a grandmother who is worried about paying the bills and grappling with a grandson who prefers to wear girl’s clothing. The onscreen Roseanne makes for a sharp foil to Ms. Metcalf’s character, who wears a “nasty woman” T-shirt and accuses Trump supporters of “wrapping yourselves up in the flag and clinging to your guns.”“The show doesn’t advocate for Trump voters, but it respects them,” said Alex Castellanos, a veteran Republican strategist based in Florida. “Apparently, this is still news to people in the entertainment business, that there is an American working class.”For years, ABC focused on other demographic groups. With series like “The Bachelor,” “black-ish,” “Grey’s Anatomy” and “Modern Family,” the network’s lineup was notably diverse. But it was also geared toward upper-middle-class viewers, Ms. Dungey said.By November 2016, ABC was coming off a TV season when it had finished in last place among the four major broadcast networks, with little hope of escaping the ratings basement in the near future. Like other networks, it was also losing viewers to Netflix and other streaming platforms.The meeting that took place on the morning after Mr. Trump’s surprise victory led the network to reconsider its strategy. Mr. Sherwood summed up what was going through his mind that day: “Given the declines of broadcast television, the year-after-year declines, are we programming in a way that is turning people off?”In response, ABC decided to back the singing competition show “American Idol” less than two years after it had been canceled on Fox, its original network home.“We went after it because that’s a show that, fundamentally, is about the American dream,” Mr. Sherwood said. “It’s about a girl with a cowboy hat and a boy with a banjo and people from small towns where music has saved their lives in different ways.”“Roseanne,” which had its first run on ABC from 1988 to 1997, was another prime candidate for a reboot. It was a top-rated comedy that had won its share of Emmys and Golden Globes — not to mention that the woman who played its title character had become a vocal Trump supporter.Even as the president portrayed the success of “Roseanne” as a win of his own, however, ABC executives and “Roseanne” producers rejected the notion that the show’s popularity was mainly because of its appeal to Trump supporters.“I would compare this to ‘All in the Family,’” said Tom Werner, an executive producer of “Roseanne” and other hit sitcoms like “The Cosby Show” and “3rd Rock From the Sun.” “A number of people watching ‘All in the Family’ said, ‘Archie’s a conservative and therefore it’s a show about a conservative.’ Well, it was made by Norman Lear.“Part of the reason the show is successful is because it taps into the frustration and disappointment that working-class people feel about the economy right now,” he continued. “But if you watch all the episodes, we don’t really mention politics as much as we did in the pilot.”Mr. Werner pointed out that “Roseanne” will deal with the opioid epidemic and immigration in its seven remaining episodes, adding that the president does not come up much as the show goes on.As a topical, working-class sitcom led by a Trump supporter, “Roseanne” is unique — for now. Its early ratings success is likely to spur copycats in Hollywood, which is not known for its high percentage of conservatives.“Money is the ideology of Hollywood,” said Martin Kaplan, director of the Norman Lear Center for media and society at the University of Southern California. “I can’t imagine an executive who would turn down something for ideological reasons that they think has a chance to do a good number.”Go to Home Page »SAN DIEGO —  The U.S. and Mexican governments are sparring over immigration and trade, but the two countries are joining forces on the high seas like never before to go after drug smugglers.The United States, Mexico and Colombia will target drug smugglers off South America's Pacific coast in an operation that is scheduled to begin Sunday and last for the foreseeable future, Coast Guard officials told The Associated Press.U.S. Coast Guard Adm. Paul F. Zukunft teased the idea during a recent defense conference in San Diego, saying the United States "can't do it alone.""It's no secret we are besieged with the flow of drugs from Latin America to the United States," he said.U.S. and Mexican forces have routinely worked together at sea, but the latest effort "marks a significant step in terms of information sharing, collaboration and cooperation between the United States, Mexico and other partner nations," according to the Coast Guard.The Americans and Mexicans will exchange intelligence more freely than in the past, which could mean sharing information on well-traveled routes for drug smugglers or preferred paths for specific smuggling organizations, Coast Guard spokeswoman Alana Miller said.They will also board the other country's vessels to view operations and gain expertise, Miller said. In 2015, three members of the Mexican navy boarded a Coast Guard vessel during a port call in Huatulco, Mexico, but this operation calls for more frequent exchanges, and they will be at sea.The operation will last "for the foreseeable future as long as it's working for everyone," Miller said. "It's sort of open-ended."Traffickers over the years have increasingly turned to the sea to move their illegal goods, traversing an area off South America that is so big, the continental United States could be dropped inside. Smugglers routinely move cocaine out of countries like Colombia to Central America and Mexico via fishing boats, skiffs, commercial cargo ships — even homemade submarines.The operation comes after five years of record seizures by the Coast Guard. But U.S. officials say because of limited resources, the U.S. military's smallest service still catches only about 25 percent of illegal shipments in the Pacific.Even so, the Coast Guard annually seizes three times the amount of cocaine confiscated at the U.S.-Mexico border. Yet ocean smuggling has not grabbed lawmakers' attention like the flow of drugs across the nearly 2,000-mile-long (3,200-kilometer-long) land border, where the Trump administration wants to spend billions to build a continuous wall.As much as 20 percent of the cocaine moving through South America ends up in the United States, and most of it lands first in Mexico from seafaring smugglers. The hope is boats will be stopped before their shipments are loaded onto Mexican trucks that fan out on various routes bound for the U.S. border, authorities said. Large boats can cart 20 tons (18 metric tons) of cocaine or more.Mexico has historically been among the Latin American countries that are most reluctant to join operations with the U.S., which can be traced back to the Mexican-American War that was fought 170 years ago. The United States cannot open military bases in Mexico, and U.S. officials, for instance, cannot venture into Mexican waters without prior permission, even if they are chasing drug vessels.The Coast Guard now stops its pursuit and alerts Mexican authorities if suspicious boats cross into their territorial waters.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.It's unclear whether this new cooperation will affect those restrictions.Treaties with nations such as Colombia have allowed U.S. authorities more latitude, such as permitting Coast Guard officers to board Colombian-flagged ships. U.S. officials have touted Colombia's joint anti-drug efforts as a model for the region.The U.S. and Mexican military relationship has strengthened since the two nations signed the 2008 Merida Initiative to work together in the drug war. There have been more cross-border trainings, especially with the Mexican Navy, which is considered less corrupt than the Mexican Army and has raised its profile with the captures and killings of drug bosses.The combined operation was planned in a series of meetings over the past year. The maritime services signed letters of intent to work together to fight organized crime while respecting each country's sovereignty and territorial waters.David Shirk, associate professor of political science at the University of San Diego, said the operation falls in line with Trump's vow to go after the "bad hombres," while President Enrique Pena Nieto has recognized organized crime is so severe that Mexico needs help."With more walled-off sections of the border, we've seen drug trafficking organizations literally go underground or offshore," he said.Last year, the Coast Guard seized more than 455,000 pounds (206,000 kilograms) of cocaine worth more than $6 billion and brought more than 600 suspected traffickers back to the United States for prosecution. The Coast Guard has been criticized for holding suspects on ships where they cannot easily access lawyers. Shirk said joint operations could lead "to serious violations of suspects' rights at sea and possible human rights violations in the process."Coast Guard officials say they respect suspects' rights. Where suspects will be sent with the three countries participating in the operation will be decided on a case-by-case basis.U.S. military officials have been reluctant to openly discuss details of the cooperation with their Mexican counterparts, sensitive to the Mexican public's historical view and recent barbs between the two presidents.Jorge Chabat, a political scientist at the Center for Economic Research and Teaching in Mexico City, said he doubts the combined operation will get much negative reaction from a Mexican public tired of drug violence."The more insecurity we have, the less nationalism we have in Mexico," he said.Ultimately, he doubts the joint operation will make much difference."This is something they have to do to maintain drug trafficking at the same level, and not allow it to grow," he said. "That's the most you can do. You can't just surrender."___Associated Press writer Elliot Spagat in San Diego contributed to this report.Go to Home Page »______This isn’t my first trip to regional Australia, and let’s put aside the “real Australia” argument; in my book, cities and towns are both reflections of national character.But just as dinner parties are different with six guests rather than 60, towns with a few hundred people do have a lot to teach about human interaction and how a country really works.In my experience, towns of the singular — one market, one intersection — tend to produce a few things in abundance. Questions are among them. Visiting reporters rarely get too far without being asked about their plans, and within a day or so, word gets around.If you’re deemed trustworthy, introductions are made, phone numbers are shared and people just appear to tell their stories.Pubs help.Here in Pyramid Hill, we arrived and dropped our bags in a couple of rooms at the Victoria Hotel around 3 p.m. on Monday. A few hours later, the local mayor stopped by for a chat and a beer on her way home from work.She appeared a few minutes later, not just at the pub, but at my table.No wonder writers love these kinds of towns.Tim Winton, even as he promotes a new novel called “The Shepherd’s Hut,” still deliberately avoids telling anyone where he can be found in Western Australia to preserve the peace and quiet of his coastal community.And then there’s Gerald Murnane, the Australian literary savant who has landed in Goroke, a stretch of remote Victoria a few hours from where I am.The shed reminded me a bit of the Op Shop here. (For the non-Aussies, that’s a vintage store, the “opportunity shop,” which sells donated goods, in this case to benefit the local nursing home.)I stopped in Tuesday afternoon and bought three antique port glasses from a couple of older volunteers who were mending dresses for some Filipino girls at the local Catholic school.Each glass cost me … go on, guess.Try 20 cents.The woman who sold them to me wrapped them carefully in gray paper to ensure they made it back to Sydney, and as we chatted about how the town was changing with the influx of Filipinos (more on that in a future story), I started to wonder what else I might buy.There was a big “for sale” sign out in front of the pub.My room was comfortable and clean. The place had good bones, solid wood floors, lots of space and decent water pressure.Would it be weird for The New York Times to buy into a piece of regional Australian life? Would it even be possible?Probably not. But in a place this friendly and quiet, it’s a ribbon of thought that keeps twirling.Now for the week’s reads … and a call for your recommendations about what to listen to, read or watch to better understand regional Australia.______Australians often ask me why Americans are so obsessed with guns, but what we’re witnessing now is a historic push in the other direction.______Who is Stormy Daniels?______Lots of things are signs of status: cars, handbags, shoes, watches. And fish — the ones that get plastic surgery.______In-DepthNewsFor Fun____________This week, as I prepare to write about Pyramid Hill and other small towns, I’m looking for suggestions: Share your favorite movies, songs, books, essays or photographs that go deep toward understanding rural, regional Australia.All suggestions, big or small, are welcome. As are stories and tales of your own.See More »Go to Home Page »SAN MATEO, California —  At his stand-up desk in a Silicon Valley office complex, Guido Nunez-Mujica's phone buzzes nonstop as he tries in vain to concentrate on his work. The text messages are from 6,000 miles away in Santiago, Chile, where he's helping resettle a group of young Venezuelans trying to retrace his own immigrant's journey to a better future.Between deciphering data and writing code, he fields questions that come flying fast: What's the fastest bus line downtown? How do you apply for an immigrant ID card? Any leads on a job?"Sometimes I'm rude and tell them to look on Google, or I have to just turn off my phone because I get five messages all at once," says the 34-year-old.The demands on Nunez-Mujica's time and energy are part of his solitary battle to give those trapped by his homeland's economic crisis a fresh start abroad. Since the end of last year, he has shelled out around $40,000 of his own money helping some 40 Venezuelans — most of them complete strangers — migrate to other South America nations.The acts of generosity range from a few months of free rent at an apartment he manages in Santiago to bus fare for a surgeon so he could move to Peru with his wife and daughter.Nunez-Mujica has now launched the crowd-funded Salto Project — based on the Spanish word for leap — to scale up the assistance effort, convinced that the only immediate solution to Venezuela's mess is helping those who can escape. So far he has raised $5,250 but the goal is more than $40,000."There's no way someone like me can do anything about the situation in Venezuela, but if I can do a little bit to help people leave that helps me to sleep at night," he said in an interview from the offices of Slice Technologies, where he earns a modest tech worker's salary coming up with solutions to improve the e-shopping experience. "I know it's a drop in the ocean, but it's something within my reach to do."It's a homespun solution to an ever more desperate situation.Mounting hunger, hyperinflation and an authoritarian government are increasingly driving Venezuelans abroad in one of the largest exoduses in Latin America's history. Independent groups estimate as many as 3 million to 4 million Venezuelans have abandoned their home country in recent years, with several hundred thousand fleeing in 2017 alone.Daniel Klie, 25, is one of the recipients of Nunez-Mujica's "micro-sponsorships," in his case $200 for a plane ticket to Santiago.With almost no savings to his name, Klie's first two months in Chile were torment. A college graduate with two degrees, in journalism and library sciences, he worked under the table at a butcher shop, toiling long hours seven days a week for less than the minimum wage.Then, buoyed by Nunez-Mujica's coaching and moral support, Klie won an internship at an advertising agency and now has a full-time gig earning about $550 a month — five times as much as he made in an entire year holding down three jobs back home."In Venezuela, trying to save money is a titanic undertaking," said Klie. "It's all about trying to eat and survive each day. Planning ahead is impossible."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Nunez-Mujica, who abandoned Venezuela in 2011, first for Chile and then three years ago the U.S., said the idea of helping others was born from the frustration he felt hearing stories and seeing pictures of friends who had lost weight struggling to feed themselves.Born into a working class family in the Andean city of Merida, Nunez-Mujica recalls going days without eating as a struggling college student in Caracas during the early days of President Hugo Chavez's socialist revolution. He said it was only thanks to the bag of groceries provided each month by his thesis adviser that he was able not only to survive but eventually thrive while working toward a PhD in biology.Now it's his turn to pay it forward.The goal isn't just to rescue Venezuelans from a collapsing economy. While Nunez-Mujica has a fatalist view of Venezuela's ability to regain its economic footing, his own experience has taught him how immigration can jumpstart one's career and creativity."Everyone in Venezuela lives in a state of dependency — either on the government or remittances from abroad," he said. "But if they move abroad they have the chance at social mobility denied to them in Venezuela. There's a multiplier effect."Many of those Nunez-Mujica has helped came through friends of friends. Most he has never met but developed a connection with based more on intuition than any deliberate screening process. To avoid becoming too vested in what are frequently heartbreaking tales of exile, he tries his best to keep communications to a minimum, preferring text messages instead of internet video calls.The current group he is helping plans to stay in Chile, unable to obtain U.S. visas and with little in the way of savings to relocate to the U.S. or Europe, the preferred destination for earlier, wealthier waves of Venezuelan migrants.Recently, with his American husband, Nunez-Mujica traveled to Santiago to meet in the flesh those he has helped evacuate. At an emotion-filled meeting in a downtown bar, the bond with people meeting for the first time was immediately apparent as Nunez-Mujica greeted Klie and three others he has helped with big hugs.Over rounds of beer, the emigres laughed at their common clumsiness adapting to life outside Venezuela. For example, the experience of going to a supermarket at night without fear of being robbed or running into a military patrol."Our country is going through hell right now," said Nunez-Mujica. "But you've got to move on. You can't be a victim forever."___Associated Press writer Terry Chea reported this story in San Mateo and AP writer Joshua Goodman reported from Bogota, Colombia. AP photographer Esteban Felix in Santiago, Chile, contributed to this report.___Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump won't let up on Amazon. He's been assailing the online retailer for days, zeroing in on a "scam" contract with the U.S. Postal Service that's actually been judged profitable for the post office.Trump's latest flurry of tweets also slammed Mexico for lax border enforcement, using as his example a caravan of Central Americans who have been moving north after crossing Mexico's southern border. But the caravan's destination is a conference in central Mexico, not the U.S., though many from the group may split off and ask for asylum either in Mexico or the U.S.Trump's fired veterans affairs secretary, meantime, sidestepped the truth when he asserted on the weekend that his ethics problems at the agency were all about politics.Here's a look at statements Monday and from the weekend on these matters:AMAZONTRUMP: "Only fools, or worse, are saying that our money losing Post Office makes money with Amazon. THEY LOSE A FORTUNE, and this will be changed. Also, our fully tax paying retailers are closing stores all over the country...not a level playing field!" — tweet Monday.TRUMP: "If the P.O. 'increased its parcel rates, Amazon's shipping costs would rise by $2.6 Billion.' This Post Office scam must stop. Amazon must pay real costs (and taxes) now!" — tweet Saturday.THE FACTS: Trump is misrepresenting the contract that has the post office deliver some Amazon orders. Federal regulators have found that contract to be profitable for the Postal Service.As well, people who buy products sold by Amazon pay sales tax in all states that have a sales tax. Not all third-party vendors using Amazon collect it, however.As for the post office, package delivery has been a bright spot for a service that's lost money for 11 straight years. The losses are mostly due to pension and health care costs — not the business deal for the Postal Service to deliver packages for Amazon. Boosted by e-commerce, the Postal Service has enjoyed double-digit increases in revenue from delivering packages, but that hasn't been enough to offset declines in first-class letters and marketing mail, which together make up more than two-thirds of postal revenue.While the Postal Service's losses can't be attributed to its package business, Trump's claim that it could get more bang for its buck may not be entirely far-fetched. A 2017 analysis by Citigroup concluded that the Postal Service was charging below-market rates as a whole for parcels. The post office does not use taxpayer money for its operations.Trump is upset about Amazon because its owner, Jeff Bezos, owns The Washington Post, one of the targets of his "fake news" tweets.___MEXICOTRUMP: "Mexico has the absolute power not to let these large 'Caravans' of people enter their country. They must stop them at their Northern Border, which they can do because their border laws work, not allow them to pass through into our country, which has no effective border laws." — tweet Monday.TRUMP: "Mexico is making a fortune on NAFTA...They have very strong border laws - ours are pathetic. With all of the money they make from the U.S., hopefully they will stop people from coming through their country and into ours, at least until Congress changes our immigration laws!" — tweet Monday.TRUMP: "These big flows of people are all trying to take advantage of DACA. They want in on the act!" — tweet Sunday.THE FACTS: Trump is painting an overly ominous picture of the procession of some 1,100 migrants, many from Honduras, who have been marching in a caravan along roadsides and train tracks in the southern Mexico state of Oaxaca. They are not marching en masse to the U.S. border to sneak in.These "Stations of the Cross" migrant caravans have been held in southern Mexico for at least the last five years. They began as short processions of migrants, some dressed in biblical garb and carrying crosses, as an Easter-season protest against the kidnappings, extortion, beatings and killings suffered by many Central American migrants as they cross Mexico.The organized portions of the caravans usually don't proceed much farther north than the Gulf coast state of Veracruz; migrants as individuals or in smaller groups often take buses or trucks from there to the border.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The current march is scheduled to wind up this month with a conference on migration issues in the central Mexican state of Puebla, east of Mexico City. That's some 650 miles by road (1,050 km) from the U.S.  Migrants who break away and reach the U.S. border often turn themselves in and request asylum.A Mexican government official said the caravans are tolerated because migrants have a right under Mexican law to request asylum in Mexico or to request a humanitarian visa to ask for asylum at the U.S. border. The understanding is that most participants in the caravan will do one or the other."Mexico is not allowing people to massively travel across the country without documents to reach the United States," said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the person was not authorized to be identified.Mexico routinely stops and deports undocumented Central Americans, sometimes in numbers that rival those of the United States. Deportations of foreigners dropped from 176,726 in 2015 to 76,433 in 2017, in part because fewer were believed to have come to Mexico, and more were requesting asylum in Mexico.As for migrants trying to "take advantage of DACA," the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program is closed to new entrants, so it's not clear how new migrants could benefit from it.The Obama-era program has provided temporary protection and work permits to hundreds of thousands of immigrants who are living in the U.S. illegally after being brought into the country as children. Trump ended the program. Absent a deal with Congress to renew it under law, the U.S. is not issuing new permits, though existing ones can be renewed.___VADAVID SHULKIN, defending himself against ethics accusations that contributed to his firing as VA secretary:  "I have been really clear. Everything that I did was done properly. It was preapproved by our ethics team. ...I think what the IG found was that a staff member had made essentially some problems in the way that they put the paperwork through. But the IG said I had no knowledge of that." — ABC interview Sunday.THE FACTS: Shulkin grossly misrepresents a report by the VA's inspector general that concluded he had violated ethics rules during an 11-day trip to Europe in July. The watchdog office determined Shulkin had improperly accepted free Wimbledon tennis tickets and failed to consult with VA ethics counsel beforehand. According to the February report, Shulkin belatedly asked VA counsel to expedite an ethics review of his acceptance of the tickets in September — two months after the trip — upon learning that journalists were making inquiries.The inspector general also concluded that Shulkin's chief of staff, Vivieca Wright Simpson, had lied to ethics officials by falsely claiming he was receiving an award in Europe to justify his wife's free travel at taxpayer expense — and doctoring emails to back up her claim. While the VA watchdog "found no evidence" that Shulkin was aware of his staffer's actions, Shulkin understates the extent of Simpson's deception to justify the free trip and his own actions abroad.SHULKIN, citing reasons Trump fired him:  "I have been falsely accused of things by people who wanted me out of the way. But despite these politically based attacks on me and my family's character, I am proud of my record and know that I acted with the utmost integrity." — op-ed Thursday in The New York Times.THE FACTS: His statement that he and his family were subjected to politically based attacks is disingenuous, though politics contributed to his dismissal.White House support for Shulkin eroded after the blistering report in February by VA's internal watchdog, a nonpartisan office, about his travels in Europe.It is true, though, that Shulkin had encountered resistance from about a half-dozen political appointees at the VA and White House who rebelled against him. In an extraordinary telephone call, top communications aide John Ullyot and VA spokesman Curt Cashour asked the Republican staff director of the House Veterans Affairs Committee to push for Shulkin's removal after the release of the inspector general's report. The staff director declined to do so. Those political appointees were not involved in drafting the inspector general's report.Shulkin expressed regret for the "distractions" caused by the report and agreed to pay more than $4,000 to cover the costs of his wife's coach airfare and the Wimbledon tickets. He continues to insist he did nothing wrong and points to what his staff did in doctoring his emails as a "mistake."___Stevenson reported from Mexico City.___Find AP Fact Checks at http://apne.ws/2kbx8bdGo to Home Page »Fifty years later, what does the Vietnam War mean? And how should we remember the men and women who served in it?A month ago, I decided to go to my house in Vermont from my home in Canada. The house is near Island Pond, about 25 miles below the Quebec border, in the area called the Northeast Kingdom. The region used to be largely agrarian, scarcely populated, farms with cattle, smallish in acreage, poor in cash. A land of subsistence farming, a practice left over from an earlier century.There are men I know there, damaged men who raise chickens for eggs and sell them in the town. I regard it as northern Appalachia, land covered with forest that once was open land back when the king needed ship’s masts and timber and sheep were important. In the beginning there were a few families, fewer than 20 in the 1830s. It stayed like that until a few years ago. Now it is second homes, snowmobiling, four-wheelers and soft ice cream.After crossing through immigration and customs I normally stop to pick up groceries at the Derby Village Store, an old-fashioned market with linoleum-covered wood floors, narrow aisles and seemingly pre-school-age cashiers. The choice is reasonable and the prices good. If you don’t care for Walmart, Shop ‘n Save or Shaw’s, you go to the Derby Village Store.It’s a human-size place, where the carts bump into one another and you have to maneuver around corners with apologies. It does not sell lattes or 12 kinds of salami. It offers an assortment of inexpensive wine and beer. It’s a Kellogg’s and Campbell’s store, with a resident butcher and a polite staff.I had picked up cheese, eggs, vegetables, chicken tenders and ice cream. I stopped by the deli counter for sliced meat when I noticed an older man, some would say very old, with a cap on his head above a checked wool jacket too light for the season. His pants were out of fashion, baggy, rolled up and stained with oil, cinched at the waist with a belt that was too long and hung down one leg.This weekly newsletter includes eyewitness accounts, rare photos and historical insights about the Vietnam War.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.He was slender and one shoulder was bent down, his face narrow, with stubble that showed the years and the tears of time. His hands were clawed with arthritis and spotted, misshapen nails with dirt under them that could not be scrubbed away. He was a man you would not notice, or if you did, not wish to touch as he shuffled behind the cart. He wore a cap that read in proud gold stitching, “Vietnam Veteran U.S.N.”The veterans of Vietnam are opaque coming to transparent, like onion paper held to light. Soon they will be crippled relics in homes and memories, photos on a dusty mantel or side table with a yellowed doily. You have passed them unseen a hundred times. You never knew their stories, because they are mostly private and you did not want to ask or know. Beyond the cap or the coat with the same words, they do not share. They wear these things for themselves and to say, I am here, and I was there.We stood by the counter waiting for our slices of pastrami and teriyaki chicken. The old man carried in his cart milk, ground coffee, a few cans of stew and soups. I could see that most of the food was ready to eat, or add water and stir. He likely lived by himself, wife dead or gone.During the pause of commerce I asked him where he had served. He responded by telling me simply that he had been in Danang on helicopters, and on a warship off the coast. It was vague and intentional. When he said he had piloted a chopper, I thought most likely a Huey with that iconic whooping sound of the blades biting the air and announcing its flight path, a sound that you know for life and run for the tree line when you hear. He might have flown something larger, a workhorse Chinook, used to carry anything that would fit or be hung, from troops to supplies, small artillery. It went where it was needed; you did what was required.Between the cutting of the meats and the wrapping of the cheese, each of us looked at the other. Maybe I had fewer scars in the open. Maybe I had more hair, a down winter coat and better boots, gloves, a wool scarf. It looked as if he had had a hard time after the war. The Kingdom offered a hard life, but easier than what he had done. His boots had uneven soles. His gait was off. He had probably been wounded.I did not want to ask. Fate had treated me more kindly. But as we used to say, no one gets out of here alive. It could have been my imagination, but our eyes reflected back into ourselves. We were doubled. He did not smile.He asked if I had been there. He asked because I had spoken first. He could not tell if I was a flatlander, from out of state, just curious or a fool. He wanted to know if he had to explain that place and the cap. His eyes saw the answer before I spoke. He asked if I knew Danang, Nha Trang, Dong Ha, the Highlands and the Delta. How many words did I use to reply? I said two or three, meaning years or tours. How many words do you need for the rainy season, fighting, the heat, humidity and the smell, fear?I said yes, remembering the firefights over the hills and low mountains at dusk, surrounding the bay at Danang, the jets coming in and dropping bombs and tumbling napalm. Heard the artillery, a different sound and cadence for every caliber. Beautiful parts in a violent orchestra, with strings, wind instruments and drums.I watched the earth explode and burn, green to black and dead. A Broadway show sitting on a folding aluminum chair for the afternoon matinee performance with a beer. He chuckled with his eyes, told me about rocket-propelled grenade attacks on the airport, running for cover, strafing runs on the riverbeds and trails, dancing to the music, killing men in the open. He told me about friends on the wall, the memorial we thought was going to be singular, unique, though we learned that was a lie.I told him about flying supplies into fire bases, coming in hot, breaking hard, slowing and throwing off ammunition and water, grabbing the wounded, engines whining to full power and the aircraft shuddering, lifting off short and hoping that the enemy we hardly knew did not have the range or luck. Dust choking, blinding. Laughing as we gained altitude, at the odds beaten, and hoping to go back for another run. Until next time. Every time we did this, the bets went back to even, the clock unwound.Our purchases were put on the glass counter top. He took his, tipped his head and cap and headed off, nothing else. I glanced as he turned, said, “So long,” watched him walk to the cash register, pay with bills, and out of the store, leaving his cart at the door. He limped and did not look back. If he had said other than an acknowledgment with his nod, it would have been more than he wanted to say and more than I needed to hear.What was it, two, three minutes of history? Meeting, touching and knowing that there had been a past and that the present was tinged with the gone before. Walking on. Shared survival and the pleasure of release with the conjugation of years. Nothing to be spoken or shared with clerks, cashiers or office workers. A diminishing private world with signals and symbols.Two men, strangers, known from and for a thousand years in kind, history buried, burned into the circuits of the brain and whatever passes for the soul. Pushed far back and down, down deep as it is possible to go. For a second, I thought I saw a young man, looking out the door of an aircraft at the jungle and rising flashes of light, soaring, swooping and rocking, smiling, wind in his hair, wind so strong that it made the eyes water and distorted his cheeks.What he saw was something else. Maybe nothing.We had validated ourselves at the meat counter in a small rural town under a winter sky. For a day I thought about the man that I would never meet again, except in myself. A man said that in our youths our hearts were touched by fire, and fire is cleansing. I am not sure. Fire leaves ash and scar. And a pale smoke that rises into the heavens and is gone.David Gerstel is a Vietnam veteran and a retired officer in the United States Merchant Marine.Go to Home Page »There are still a few days left in Women’s History Month, and coming out of the Book Review’s recent theme issue we recommend a number of titles this week exploring the place of women in the culture at large. Women in science: “A Lab of One’s Own,” by Patricia Fara. Women in business: “That’s What She Said,” by Joanne Lipman. Women in television: both “Just the Funny Parts,” by the comedy writer Nell Scovell, and “Stealing the Show,” by the TV reporter Joy Press, who has just signed on as a Vanity Fair correspondent. (Yes, her book discusses “Roseanne,” and much else besides.) There’s also a novel and a story collection, a book of essays about being black and female in white male society, and a graphic novelist’s celebration of rebellious women in history. Changing course — you’ll get the bad joke in a second — we also recommend a new translation of the Bhagavad Gita, a deeply reported profile of a Chinese immigrant to New York City and a biography of Tiger Woods. I warned you “changing course” was bad.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Go to Home Page »WASHINGTON — A lawyer for President Trump broached the idea of Mr. Trump’s pardoning two of his former top advisers, Michael T. Flynn and Paul Manafort, with their lawyers last year, according to three people with knowledge of the discussions.The discussions came as the special counsel was building cases against both men, and they raise questions about whether the lawyer, John Dowd, who resigned last week, was offering pardons to influence their decisions about whether to plead guilty and cooperate in the investigation.The talks suggest that Mr. Trump’s lawyers were concerned about what Mr. Flynn and Mr. Manafort might reveal were they to cut a deal with the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, in exchange for leniency. Mr. Mueller’s team could investigate the prospect that Mr. Dowd made pardon offers to thwart the inquiry, although legal experts are divided about whether such offers might constitute obstruction of justice.Mr. Dowd’s conversation with Mr. Flynn’s lawyer, Robert K. Kelner, occurred sometime after Mr. Dowd took over last summer as the president’s personal lawyer, at a time when a grand jury was hearing evidence against Mr. Flynn on a range of potential crimes. Mr. Flynn, who served as Mr. Trump’s first national security adviser, agreed in late November to cooperate with the special counsel’s investigation. He pleaded guilty in December to lying to the F.B.I. about his conversations with the Russian ambassador and received favorable sentencing terms.Mr. Dowd has said privately that he did not know why Mr. Flynn had accepted a plea, according to one of the people. He said he had told Mr. Kelner that the president had long believed that the case against Mr. Flynn was flimsy and was prepared to pardon him, the person said.The pardon discussion with Mr. Manafort’s attorney, Reginald J. Brown, came before his client was indicted in October on charges of money laundering and other financial crimes. Mr. Manafort, the former chairman of Mr. Trump’s presidential campaign, has pleaded not guilty and has told others he is not interested in a pardon because he believes he has done nothing wrong and the government overstepped its authority. Mr. Brown is no longer his lawyer.It is unclear whether Mr. Dowd discussed the pardons with Mr. Trump before bringing them up with the other lawyers.Mr. Dowd, who was hired last year to defend the president during the Mueller inquiry, took the lead in dealing directly with Mr. Flynn’s and Mr. Manafort’s lawyers, according to two people familiar with how the legal team operated.He denied on Wednesday that he discussed pardons with lawyers for the president’s former advisers.“There were no discussions. Period,” Mr. Dowd said. “As far as I know, no discussions.”Contacted repeatedly over several weeks, the president’s lawyers representing him in the special counsel’s investigation maintained that they knew of no discussions of possible pardons.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Never during the course of my representation of the president have I had any discussions of pardons of any individual involved in this inquiry,” Jay Sekulow, a lawyer for Mr. Trump, said on Wednesday.Ty Cobb, the White House lawyer dealing with the investigation, added, “I have only been asked about pardons by the press and have routinely responded on the record that no pardons are under discussion or under consideration at the White House.”Mr. Kelner and Mr. Brown declined to comment.During interviews with Mr. Mueller’s investigators in recent months, current and former administration officials have recounted conversations they had with the president about potential pardons for former aides under investigation by the special counsel, according to two people briefed on the interviews.In one meeting with lawyers from the White House Counsel’s Office last year, Mr. Trump asked about the extent of his pardon power, according to a person briefed on the conversation. The lawyers explained that the president’s powers were broad, the person said. And in other meetings with senior advisers, the president raised the prospect of pardoning Mr. Flynn, according to two people present.Legal experts are divided about whether a pardon offer, even if given in exchange for continued loyalty, can be considered obstruction of justice. Presidents have constitutional authority to pardon people who face or were convicted of federal charges.But even if a pardon were ultimately aimed at hindering an investigation, it might still pass legal muster, said Jack Goldsmith, a former assistant attorney general in the George W. Bush administration and a professor at Harvard Law School.“There are few powers in the Constitution as absolute as the pardon power — it is exclusively the president’s and cannot be burdened by the courts or the legislature,” he said. “It would be very difficult to look at the president’s motives in issuing a pardon to make an obstruction case.”The remedy for such interference would more likely be found in elections or impeachment than in prosecuting the president, Mr. Goldsmith added.But pardon power is not unlimited, said Samuel W. Buell, a professor of law at Duke University.“The framers did not create the power to pardon as a way for the president to protect himself and his associates” from being prosecuted for their own criminal behavior, he said.Under Mr. Buell’s interpretation, Mr. Dowd’s efforts could be used against the president in an obstruction case if prosecutors want to demonstrate that it was part of larger conspiracy to impede the special counsel investigation.Mr. Dowd is said to believe that the president has nearly unlimited pardon authority, but he and others have repeatedly insisted that no pardon offers have been made.“I don’t want to talk about pardons for Michael Flynn yet,” Mr. Trump told reporters on Dec. 15 on the South Lawn of the White House. “We’ll see what happens. Let’s see. I can say this: When you look at what’s gone on with the F.B.I. and with the Justice Department, people are very, very angry.”Mr. Trump has been preoccupied with the investigation into Mr. Flynn since at least early last year. In February 2017, alone in the Oval Office with the F.B.I. director at the time, James B. Comey, the president asked him to end the investigation, Mr. Comey told lawmakers. After that episode became public, Mr. Mueller was appointed by the Justice Department to be the special counsel.It is not clear what Mr. Flynn has told the special counsel as part of his cooperation agreement. During interviews with other witnesses, Mr. Mueller’s investigators have focused on what Mr. Flynn told the president about his calls during the transition with the Russian ambassador to the United States at the time, Sergey I. Kislyak. The calls came soon after the Obama administration announced new sanctions on Russia for its role in disrupting the 2016 presidential campaign.Mr. Manafort, who ran Mr. Trump’s presidential campaign for several months, has been indicted on dozens of counts of money laundering and other financial crimes connected to his work as a lobbyist and former consultant for Viktor F. Yanukovych, who at the time was president of Ukraine. The charges are not connected to any work that Mr. Manafort did for Mr. Trump.When announcing the pardon, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Trump appreciated the sailor’s “service to the country.”Michael S. Schmidt, Mark Mazzetti and Adam Goldman reported from Washington, and Jo Becker and Maggie Haberman from New York. Matt Apuzzo contributed reporting from Washington.See More »Go to Home Page »