' a story April 1 about the Trump administration's treatment of skilled immigrants, The Associated Press reported erroneously that the administration ended a program to admit foreign entrepreneurs. A judge ruled in December that the program must take effect, though the administration has not approved any applications and says it will rescind the program.A corrected version of the story is below:Trump says he wants skilled migrants but creates new hurdlesTrump wants the US immigration system to focus on skills instead of family ties, but his administration is making it harder on skilled immigrantsBy NICHOLAS RICCARDIAssociated PressIt may be a while before President Donald Trump gets another chance at creating a new, "merit-based" immigration system, a keystone of his four-part plan that Congress rejected last month. In the meantime, his administration is busy making it harder, not easier, for skilled migrants to come work in the United States.The administration says it will end an Obama-era program to admit foreign entrepreneurs who want to start companies in the United States. It is more aggressively scrutinizing visas to skilled workers from other countries. And it is contemplating ending a provision that allows spouses of those skilled workers to be employed in the U.S.AdvertisementThe administration and its backers contend it's trying to fix flaws in the existing, employer-centric skilled immigration system while advocating for a complete overhaul of America's immigration system.Advertisement"The stuff that they're actually doing is not so much restricting skilled immigration as enforcing the law," said Mark Krikorian of the Center for Immigration Studies, which supports reducing immigration. "They're rolling back some of the extralegal measures that other administrations have taken."A primary avenue for skilled immigrants to enter the United States is the H1B visa for specialty workers, which is heavily used by the technology industry. About 85,000 visas are issued annually in a lottery system. Some critics argue they are a way for companies to avoid hiring U.S. citizens; Trump himself has said H1B recipients shouldn't even be considered skilled.In 2016, two technology workers sued Disney, alleging 250 U.S. employees were laid off and many were forced to train replacements who were hired on H1B visas. A federal judge dismissed the lawsuit, saying Disney was following existing immigration laws.The Trump administration has increased its scrutiny of H1B applications, requiring renewals be submitted in person and asking for additional proof the workers are needed and are being paid top tier."This increase reflects our commitment to protecting the integrity of the immigration system," said Joanne Fereirra, a spokeswoman for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. She added that 92.5 percent of the visas are still approved, only two percentage points lower than under the Obama administration in 2016.Still, businesses have noticed a change."We've got employees that are going through the process, who have gone through such a level of scrutiny and interrogatory that is unprecedented," said Dean Garfield, president of the Information Technology Industry Council, which advocates for H1B visas and has had one of its own workers have to move back overseas because of delays in approving the requisite visa.The extra time with H1B visas is only part of the administration's changes to skilled, work-based immigration.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Last year, Trump signed an executive order that directed all government agencies to "rigorously enforce and administer the laws governing entry into the United States of workers from abroad" to ensure the maximum number of U.S. citizens have jobs. The order also called for shifting H1Bs from lower-paid workers to higher-paid ones who truly have skills that can't be obtained from the native workforce.AdvertisementThe administration also moved to stop an Obama administration program that was about to start last year to let international entrepreneurs who start companies in the United States live in the country for renewable, 30-month stints. Though a judge in December blocked the government's effort prevent the program from taking effect, the Trump administration says it has not approved any of the about 10 entries it has received and still plans to end the program.Also in December, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security released its new regulatory agenda which included further, unspecified changes to the H1B program. The administration also indicated it will roll back the STEM OPT program expanded by President Barack Obama that lets international science and technology students work legally in the U.S. for up to three years.Meanwhile, the State Department said last week it is seeking to further enhance vetting of potential immigrants and visitors by requiring all U.S. visa applicants to submit their social media usernames, previous email addresses and phone numbers — information that was previously sought only from applicants identified for extra scrutiny. The department estimates 710,000 immigrant visa applicants and 14 million non-immigrant visa applicants will be affected annually.Akash Negi, 26, graduated last month with a master's in sciences and analytics from Pennsylvania's Harrisburg University of Science and Technology that he earned while working as a big data analyst at JP Morgan Chase. Negi moved to the United States after his father got a diplomatic visa as part of a job at the United Nations, but his legal residency doesn't include a work permit.He was able to work while a student but is waiting for his STEM OPT visa to remain employed, and is concerned Trump will gut the program.Negi noted he understands Trump's stated goals of protecting U.S. workers but says he's going about it incorrectly."Any country wants to protect its own citizens, but you don't just end the program when you don't have your own population trained," Negi said.The Trump administration has also signaled it may end another Obama-era program that allowed spouses of H1B visa holders to work legally in the U.S. Many of these people have been in the U.S. for years, sometimes long enough to have children who are now U.S. citizens, yet can face a decades-long wait for a green card. The prospect of being unable to work is a shock to them."I would like to make my own living. I am qualified and skilled," said Anushri Maru, 35, a business analyst in Houston, adding she's baffled her new home doesn't want her talents. "I'm not sure they understand that we are skilled immigrants."Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorSEATTLE — Seventeen years ago, I celebrated my first Independence Day as a United States citizen. I couldn’t have predicted then that I would one day have the enormous privilege of being the first Indian-American woman to serve in the United States House of Representatives, and one of only six members of Congress who are naturalized citizens.After arriving here from India at age 16, I spent more than a dozen years on an alphabet soup of visas — F1, H1B and more — before I finally got my green card through marriage to an American. Some years later, I was awarded a fellowship from the Institute of Current World Affairs, which allowed me to spend two years living in my birth country. I just had to come back to the United States once a year to keep my permanent resident status current. When I became pregnant during the second year of the program, my husband and I planned to return to the United States in time for my last trimester, so I could deliver the baby at home, and then return to India.That plan did not work out. Just two weeks before we were scheduled to board our flight back to the United States, I developed a leak in my amniotic sac. My son was born prematurely at 26.5 weeks, weighing less than two pounds. I was now faced with a choice. In order to preserve my permanent resident status, I needed to return to the United States within weeks of his birth. But he was so tiny and in such critical condition that he could not fly, and I refused to leave his bedside knowing he might die.So I stayed in India. I lost my green card status and only through the help and hard work of the institute was I able to regain my permanent residence status and return to the United States three months later when my son was finally able to fly.I became determined to get my citizenship as soon as I was eligible so that I would never again face the prospect of being separated from my son, who was a United States citizen by virtue of being the child of a United States citizen father. Part of the agreement that had allowed me to return to the United States again and regain my permanent residence status was that I would have to start from zero to qualify for citizenship again. That process took three years.When I finally walked into the cavernous hall at the old location of Immigration and Naturalization Services (now called United States Citizenship and Immigration Services) south of downtown Seattle, I was prepared for a simple transaction that would finally grant me citizenship and ensure that I would always be with my son. I did not anticipate the emotion that would come with the moment, or the way it would shape my future, and my understanding of this country.There were hundreds of others at the ceremony from all over the world, and I could hear languages from every continent spoken. We all carried small American flags. Grandparents held children; moms and dads held hands. As we took the oath of citizenship, the solemnity of the moment spiked through me. Tears welled up and rolled down my cheeks as I took in the mixed emotions of renouncing any allegiance to my birth country of India where I had been a citizen for 35 years and embracing my new country.America, a country that had embraced me as a 16-year-old who had come here by myself to study and build a life of better opportunity.America, a country built on the idea of being a refuge for those in need, “the tired masses, yearning to breathe free.”America, a country that has always celebrated itself as a nation of immigrants.In that moment, as I took my oath, I realized how lucky I was. I knew that my future had opened up, and that citizenship would offer me the chance to seek opportunity and to take part in our democracy. I knew, too, that with those freedoms and opportunity came enormous responsibility: to do everything I could to preserve and build our democracy, to vote, and to use my life to pay it forward and ensure opportunity for others.I became an immigrant, civil and human rights advocate, then the first South Asian elected to the Washington State Legislature and the only woman of color in the Washington State Senate, and then was elected in 2016 to the United States Congress.These are difficult times for immigrants and for Americans across our country. President Trump has harnessed the fear and prejudice that have accompanied every wave of immigrants in United States history, and stoked those fears to further his own agenda.This Fourth of July, as I remember my own naturalization ceremony and give thanks for the honor of being a United States citizen and a member of Congress, I call on the president and my fellow Americans to remember our history. What makes America great is our commitment to our values of inclusivity and opportunity for all. Immigration is about more than just who comes here and who is allowed to stay. It is about who we are as a country and what we are willing to stand up for.Pramila Jayapal, a Democrat, is the United States representative for Washington’s Seventh Congressional District.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisement“The people of Arizona will be very happy. It’s a lot of jobs,” President Trump said after Intel’s C.E.O. said the company will invest $7 billion to build a new factory.The completion of the factory, which will complement two other Intel semiconductor plants in Chandler, Ariz., had been under consideration for several years.Standing beside Mr. Trump in the Oval Office, Brian Krzanich, Intel’s chief executive, said the company had decided to proceed now because of “the tax and regulatory policies we see the administration pushing forward.”Mr. Trump said: “The people of Arizona will be very happy. It’s a lot of jobs.”He said Intel called the White House several weeks ago to coordinate the announcement. That outreach illustrates the tightrope that Silicon Valley companies are walking as they deal with a president most of them did not want to see in office.AdvertisementAdvertisementStacy J. Smith, the executive vice president who oversees manufacturing and sales, said Intel considered itself apolitical. “Intel engages, whatever the administration,” he said in an interview after Wednesday’s announcement. “We focus on the issues that we care about.”A look at the companies that changed plans, announced new ones or stood their ground after catching the president’s attention.Intel said it agreed with Mr. Trump’s desire to improve the investment climate for American manufacturers. “In places where we believe the policies are in the best interest of the company, we lean in,” Mr. Smith said.In other areas, such as Mr. Trump’s desire to curb immigration and end free-trade agreements, Intel disagrees, and it is telling the White House so. “We care about hiring the best and brightest people around the world,” Mr. Smith said. “We care about exporting our products all over the world.”“When we disagree, we don’t walk away,” he wrote. “We believe that we must be part of the conversation to voice our views on key issues such as immigration, H1B visas and other policies that are essential to innovation.”'tel’s political action committee gave about equally to Democratic and Republican candidates during the last election cycle. Individual employees donated far more to Hillary Clinton’s campaign than to Mr. Trump’s. But over all, the company is not a major political donor.New chip plants are tremendously expensive, requiring large tracts of land, reliable electricity and water, and a skilled work force that includes people with doctorates in chemistry and technicians who can repair a malfunctioning robot. Sophisticated equipment is necessary to deposit and etch microscopic layers of material on silicon wafers, which are then cut and packaged into the microprocessors that run personal computers, servers, smartphones and, increasingly, other electronic devices.Countries compete to land such plants, especially modern factories that produce the most valuable chips and bring high-paying research and development jobs. Government subsidies are common, with China vowing to spend tens of billions of dollars to expand its domestic chip industry.While most technology manufacturing, such as computers and smartphones, has moved overseas, American factories still account for about one-seventh of global chip production and produce many of the most valuable computer chips, including Intel’s flagship processors. Seventy-six chip plants are scattered across the United States, from South Portland, Me., to Newport Beach, Calif., according to the Semiconductor Industry Association.The industry is seeking corporate tax cuts and incentives for research and development. In addition, chip makers would like to see the United States government relax longstanding national security restrictions on the export of new chip technology. In Intel’s case, the regulations forbid the company from making its high-end processors in China.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Smith said Mr. Trump had offered Intel no financial incentives to complete the Arizona factory.The plant was conceived in 2011. President Barack Obama visited the site in 2012, when construction had just begun, and he praised the plant as an example of “an America where we build stuff and make stuff and sell stuff all over the world.”But it was mothballed in 2014 after sales of personal computers — and the Intel chips that go into them — started to slide. Intel restructured its business and announced last year that it was laying off 12,000 people, including 560 in Chandler. The company now employs about 50,000 people in the United States and 106,000 worldwide.As Intel looks beyond servers and personal computers to new markets like other Internet-connected devices, cars and tablets, sales are growing again, and it will need the new factory when it is completed in a couple of years. “We’re building it for our own business reasons,” Mr. Smith said.The plant will build ultradense chips that Intel refers to as seven nanometer, with transistors packed more closely together than in the chips the company now builds. The tighter spacing allows for faster, more energy-efficient chips. “This factory will produce the most powerful computer chips on the planet,” Mr. Krzanich said.Intel, one of the original chip companies, from which Silicon Valley gets its name, is based in Santa Clara, Calif. But most of its chip production is in Oregon and Arizona. It also has factories in China, Ireland and Israel.An earlier version of a photo caption with this article misstated the year that an Intel factory was under construction. It was 2012, not 2002.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementFollow Us:Get the Upshot in your InboxJohn Williams, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, said his meetings with business leaders in recent weeks had been dominated by uncertainty about the economic plans of President-elect Donald J. Trump.Trade with China and immigration from Mexico have been huge drivers of economic growth in the western United States. Excitement about tax cuts and regulatory relief has been tempered by worries about the impact of less trade and less immigration.In an interview on Friday, Mr. Williams described what he has been hearing. He also talked about the postelection shift in his own economic outlook, and what he has learned about the health of the American economy over the last 12 months.His comments have been lightly edited for clarity and brevity.Republicans are talking about tax cuts that could provide a jolt of fiscal stimulus. Did that play a role in the decision to raise rates in December?AdvertisementI’m going to give you my own views on that. The unemployment rate has fallen to well below 5 percent, core inflation has been edging up over the last year or so, and other signs of good momentum, such as job growth, made a very convincing case to make this small step at this time. While there are a lot of tensions around fiscal policy and those developments, in my view this decision stands on its own. From my perspective, my support for the rate increase was based wholly on the data we have seen and the basic economic outlook over the next couple of years.AdvertisementBut surely the pace of future rate hikes will depend in part on fiscal policy?The thing about conducting monetary policy in this time, it’s really important to reiterate that we’re focused on our maximum employment and price stability goals. There are decisions that are made by the elected representatives in Congress and the administration, and that’s the process that should happen. What we need to do and what we will do is focus on any changes in the economic outlook, what does that mean for achieving our goals and for the right path of policy decisions to achieve those goals. I know everyone likes to talk about fiscal policy in terms of what does it mean for the outlook. In the last couple of years we’ve also had some big shocks to the economy that came from across the globe. There’s a lot of things that can change and we have to stay focused on our goals and continue to be data dependent in terms of analyzing what do these changes mean for our outlook.The Fed’s baseline for next year is three rate increases. Is that your view?I will say that my underlying view for next year is broadly consistent with the central tendency of the committee. My view is that the economy is going to grow roughly as it did this year, unemployment is going to edge down a little bit, inflation moving back to 2 percent, and that calls for gradual removal of policy accommodation.So Mr. Trump’s election hasn’t had a big impact on your economic outlook?Obviously I don’t have any particular insights into what the new Congress or the new administration is going to do around fiscal policy. There’s a lot of uncertainty about what policies are going to be enacted, and that matters a lot in terms of thinking about any effects on the economy. I do think, even though I’m definitely “wait and see” in terms of learning what happens, the main effect on my outlook is that my view on the risks to the outlook have shifted a little. Those risks used to be maybe balanced and if anything a little bit to the soft side because of global developments and other factors that might cause growth to weaken. And I think that the possibility of greater fiscal stimulus and other changes in policies would if anything move those risks a little bit to the right. But it’s not a big effect.If the economy is now growing at something close to its sustainable potential, what good can come of fiscal stimulus?Changes in fiscal or other policies that can increase potential output of the economy or the growth rate of the economy in terms of the supply side obviously would be beneficial in terms of the low equilibrium interest rate. The kind of things I’m thinking about are policies that lead to increased investment, whether it’s public investment in infrastructure or productivity: enhancing business investment around research and development or just general expansion of investment in plants and facilities and things like that. We’re trying to have a game changer around longer-term growth prospects and boost the long-run strength of the economy. And it’s really going to have to come through things that either increase the productivity of the economy or on the other side improve and increase the labor force and give education or job training, improving the productivity of our work force. Those are the things that really matter for the long run.Is there any value in deficit spending just to stimulate growth?Any discussion around federal fiscal policy has to — at this juncture, given that the economy is near full employment and it’s in pretty good shape in terms of the business cycle — it should be focused on improving the longer-run performance of the economy. I think that’s beneficial to everybody in our society. The other issue that’s obviously important is that you want to have a federal budget that’s sustainable in the long run. So when thinking about fiscal policies, I would really think the key issue is, “What are policies that would improve the long-run performance of our economy and make our economy stronger in the longer run and put the federal budget on a sustainable long-run path?” So hopefully that’s the direction that things will go.AdvertisementI think the important thing to remember on this is that this is not an issue about the U.S. or Canada. It’s an issue that according to our research and an increasing number of researchers, this observation that the equilibrium interest rate appears to be at very low level and is likely to stay that way for a long time is more of a global phenomenon. The one piece of advice I give on this is: Stop thinking about this as a national issue. It’s really a global phenomenon driven by demographic trends and what economists call the global savings glut or heightened demand for safe assets. I think people around the world are starting to focus on this. The question of what’s the right remedy, that’s kind of the later discussion.If it’s a global issue, does it require a coordinated response?If people came to the conclusion that given the equilibrium real rate [inflation targets should be increased], I do think there would be advantages: that the more countries that raised their target at the same time, I think the greater the benefit is. If you look at some of the research that’s going on, I think one of the most interesting and important conclusions from that is that the negative spillovers from other parts of the world, if they go into recession and hit the zero lower bound, and monetary policy cannot be fully effective in bringing their economies back to full strength, the negative spillover is greater if the rest of the world is also getting pushed down to the zero lower bound. When everybody is at the zero lower bound and they’re all being constrained, there’s a negative feedback loop. Weakness abroad spills over to the United States and then we can’t offset that as effectively. If we had a higher inflation target and didn’t come to the zero lower bound, we’d be free to adjust our policy to offset any effects coming from abroad, and that has a positive influence on the global economy. And with a very low inflation target around the world, the likelihood of all of us hitting the zero lower bound is higher. And if everyone had a higher inflation target — a modestly higher target, a 3 or 4 percent target — then the likelihood of all us getting to the zero lower bound at the same time is much lower. My punch line is: Yes, countries can do it one by one. That would work. We’ve seen it happen. But I do think there are some benefits to a more, I wouldn’t say coordinated, but perhaps a more correlated approach.You mentioned the Bank of Canada’s accounting every five years. There are proposals before Congress to increase the Fed’s accountability. Do you think there are versions of that idea that would be desirable?Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.To my mind the most important feature of what the Federal Reserve operates under is the ability to act independently of short-term political influence. To me that’s the bedrock of any discussion of reforms around the Federal Reserve. Research has shown that independent central banks can work more effectively at keeping inflation low and stable and keeping economies performing up to their potential, and that’s a critical piece of any Fed reform. It’s essential that we retain the ability to make what can be politically unpopular decisions in the interest of the economy. That’s the way the Federal Reserve was constructed, and various reforms have maintained and strengthened that so we can focus on our dual mandate goals.The other point I’d make that doesn’t get enough attention is that these efforts to tie the Fed’s hands seems to be completely at odds with the structure of the Federal Reserve in having a committee of presidents from around the U.S. together with governors, having a group of people with different perspectives and backgrounds and different understandings of how monetary policy works. That whole structure is designed to get away from groupthink and it’s designed to show that we don’t all agree and highlight different views.But are there steps you think the Fed should take?Obviously I believe strongly in transparency at the Federal Reserve in terms of our strategy or our policies. We’ve moved dramatically toward more transparency in the 20 years I’ve been at the Fed. I think those are all positive things and I’m a supporter of any efforts we can do to be more transparent around our thinking around policy decisions within that rubric of being independent of short-term political pressure.AdvertisementOur monetary policy report [sent to Congress twice a year] as currently constituted doesn’t really provide this kind of information – the analysis around monetary policy – the stuff that you see around monetary policy reports at the Bank of England or the Riksbank. You look at those other reports and you’re saying, these are quite amazing documents in terms of how much content they put into those. Our report, I don’t think we’re anywhere near best practice in terms of having that kind of report. That’s a big undertaking and a lot of work, but that’s again what I look at – is there a way even with our structure to come up with a monetary policy report that would give that depth to the analysis. We hide from the public how much work and thought goes into these, how much assessment of risks to the outlook in policy decisions, how much thinking goes into that.Have you been surprised by the strength of job growth? Was there more room for the economy to improve than you expected?Labor force participation has held up a little better than we had thought. And we’ve got a lot more research on this, in the context of “Hey, maybe we were missing something.” One approach is to say, let’s just treat everybody in the population as potentially in the labor force. Everyone over 16, let’s look at that whole pool and construct a nonemployment index and for each group — a person in school, a person who’s in retirement — you ask statistically, what’s the percentage of those people who get a job in the next month? The punch line is when you look at this broader statistic, that number is basically consistent with an unemployment rate below 5 percent and it’s very similar to the figure you get in 2005, when the economy was at full employment. What that tells me is whatever has been happening over the last year, where we are today is essentially consistent with being at full employment.That does leave the huge question: If we really are at trend, why is participation so much lower than it was 10 years ago? And that’s something economists have really turned their energy to understand: Why today the normal is so much different?Trade with China, and immigration from Mexico, have been huge drivers of economic growth in your district. Are you concerned about the potential impact of Mr. Trump’s plans to limit both?We’ve been collecting a lot of perspectives from business leaders and community leaders in our district. And it was fascinating to me. It was one of the most interesting conversations I’ve had. First of all, everybody who came to these meetings, that’s what they were thinking about. Obviously there are people very excited about perhaps a little more business-friendly regulation. A lot of people are excited about lower corporate taxes. But it was striking because in that same conversation where people said I’m bullish on this or cautiously optimistic on that, it was striking how much concern business leaders in my district expressed around immigration and trade. Obviously trade is a big deal here on the West Coast. Our industries are very export-oriented. That was an area where there is uncertainty around where that would go, not as a political statement, just “How would this affect us?” given how many industries and jobs are really tied to a global economy.In terms of the agriculture industry, which is still a big part of the Western economy, clearly issues around labor availability came up quite a bit. That’s tied to immigration, but it’s also tied to concerns about our education system and making sure that if we’re going to restrict the availability of labor into our market one way or the other, we’re going to need to train and prepare our work force for the jobs that we need to fill.Similarly you heard comments in tech about H1B visas. Nobody knows what’s going to happen but this is a region of the economy that really has been built over a very long period of time around global trade, around openness, around bringing in the best talent from around the world into the technology world, superlative universities that attract people who come here and end up staying here. What I heard a lot of was more about the uncertainty of this, and people saying in the end this either means more mechanization if we don’t have labor available, to have this done even more by machines.And then in the tech world and quite honestly entertainment too we know that this is a very fungible industry. If it’s hard to get the labor to come here, you’ll have to have your offices, your research-and-development shops and other things where the labor can be. There’s always a discussion around Canada being very open to having tech centers open up where they do research and do other things. It’s not a political thing. It’s more about the uncertainty.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementMr. Cruz would hardly be the only person to modulate his most provocative language when speaking to people whose support he is courting. But Mr. Cruz, the winner of the Iowa caucuses, has worked harder than any Republican running for president to portray himself as the true and pure conservative and to impugn his rivals as not faithful enough in their conservatism.Now, as he finds himself locked in an intense struggle for the support of the party’s top donors, instances in which he curried favor, or merely associated, with people who do not share his views on some contentious issues are being dredged up and shared by people who believe that Mr. Cruz has been disingenuous, especially in his solicitation of money from people he has coolly dismissed as having “New York values.”' interviews, donors and activists do not suggest that Mr. Cruz has contradicted himself. But they say that, in contrast to his aggressive public persona, he places a distinctly softer emphasis on some of his most stridently conservative views when privately addressing people who might find them offensive.AdvertisementOn immigration, for example, Mr. Cruz has come under fire for reversing himself on expanding the H1B visa pool for highly skilled workers, a program viewed skeptically by conservatives. He now opposes it, citing abuses of the program. But in advocating for the program in 2013, he sought support not just from policy experts but from donors with an interest in the subject.That June, Mr. Cruz’s spokesman, Sean Rushton, wrote to an aide to Joe Lonsdale, a venture investor, attaching a draft op-ed by Mr. Cruz explaining his support for an increase in the visas, which was favored by many in the tech industry, including Mr. Lonsdale. The email invited Mr. Lonsdale to propose edits to the article if he saw fit. (The op-ed does not appear to have run.)Mr. Cruz’s spokesman, Rick Tyler, said his positions were consistent, adding, “We give donors an opportunity to sign on with Cruz, not the other way around.”In interviews, people who have seen Mr. Cruz speak privately said he was able to switch back and forth with ease between his crusading public persona and a softer and less confrontational tone.Mr. Perkins, the evangelical leader, who endorsed Mr. Cruz this week, said that there was nothing unusual about this. “You find a point of commonality,” he said. “That doesn’t mean you’re not for the other issues.” Mr. Cruz, he added, was sincere in his beliefs. “I’ve never seen him speak out of both sides of his mouth.”Robert O’Brien, a Los Angeles lawyer who supported Mitt Romney in 2012 and Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin before he dropped out, gathered more than a dozen former Romney supporters to meet Mr. Cruz in December 2014. “I found his positions to be solid conservative Ronald Reagan-type positions,” said Mr. O’Brien, saying Mr. Cruz, whom he found charming, focused primarily on national security. “I didn’t find them to be kind of the caricature that came out of him in the Senate,” he said. But he said he did not hear any contradictions with Mr. Cruz’s public pronouncements.Despite his public denunciations of political opponents and firebrand views on social issues, Mr. Cruz has a long history with some of the party’s prominent donors who hold more liberal views on social issues.' his 30s, when he was a lawyer mulling his next move, Mr. Cruz sought out wealthy financiers who were major benefactors to gay-rights causes. His campaign for Texas attorney general in 2009 was aided with $250,000 from Peter Thiel, a co-founder of PayPal, and he persuaded Mr. Singer to donate $25,000. (Mr. Cruz withdrew when his boss at the time, Attorney General Greg Abbott, sought re-election.)Mr. Cruz continues to rely on Mr. Thiel’s generosity and describes the venture capitalist, who is gay, as a close friend. He has been a guest at two lavish conferences Mr. Thiel hosts for up-and-coming conservative leaders, one in Miami Beach at the Setai, where rooms top $1,000 per night, in 2008, and another at the Reynolds Plantation in Georgia in 2009.A person who attended the Miami Beach gathering described the retreats as brainstorming sessions on the future of the American right involving people who were more centrist-minded than fire-breathing conservatives.Attendees included young Republicans who were considered rising stars at the time, including Eric Cantor, who would become House majority leader, and Aaron Schock, the former Illinois congressman who would later resign amid revelations of campaign finance impropriety.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Thiel was also a major supporter of Mr. Cruz’s 2012 Senate campaign, giving $2 million to the Club for Growth, which in turn spent heavily on Mr. Cruz’s behalf. And Mr. Cruz invoked their friendship at a fund-raiser last April at the home of two hoteliers whose properties cater to a gay clientele.Mr. Thiel and Mr. Singer have both supported efforts to legalize same-sex marriage for the better part of the last decade.Mr. Cruz first wooed Mr. Singer in March 2009, according to a person who reviewed Mr. Singer’s calendar but insisted on anonymity to disclose details from it. Over the next five years, Mr. Cruz requested at least eight more meetings with Mr. Singer in his Manhattan office, and got four.In 2012, Mr. Singer donated $100,000 to a group that helped elect Mr. Cruz to the Senate. But he was turned off by what he thought was Mr. Cruz’s futile and harmful efforts that shut down the government in 2013 in protest of the Affordable Care Act.They differed most noticeably, however, on gay rights. Mr. Singer has often urged Republicans to adopt a more inclusive tone. But shortly after the Supreme Court ruling last summer that legalized same-sex marriage, Mr. Cruz told an audience of conservatives the decision was “one of the greatest threats to our democracy we have seen in modern times.”See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementAdvertisementAdvertisementAdvertisementAdvertisementThe New York Times will be checking assertions made throughout the 2016 presidential campaign.AdvertisementAdvertisementAdvertisementAdvertisementAdvertisementAdvertisementAdvertisementNick Corasaniti of The Times points out key moments from the Republican presidential debate on Thursday in Coral Gables, Fla., where candidates discussed Cuba, immigration and climate change.AdvertisementAdvertisementAdvertisementThe days before primaries and caucuses are intense — and often emotional — for voters and candidates alike. We’re capturing that drama.AdvertisementAdvertisementA coalition of Republicans is banking on a scenario in which Donald J. Trump fails to reach the 1,237 delegates required to secure the party’s nomination before its July convention, creating a potential opening for another nominee as the delegates vote on the convention floor.Subscribe for updates on the White House and Congress, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementFollowing is a transcript of the Republican debate, as transcribed by the Federal News Service.KELLY: Good evening, and welcome to the fabulous FOX Theatre in downtown Detroit, the site of the 11th Republican presidential debate of the 2016 campaign.KELLY: I’m Megyn Kelly, along with my co-moderators, Bret Baier and Chris Wallace.BAIER: 59 Republican delegates are at stake here in the state of Michigan during next Tuesday’s Republican primary, the biggest prize out of four states holding contests that day. For tonight’s debate we’re partnering with Facebook. The conversation about this election has been intense, as the crowd is here.Since January 1st, 53 million people in the U.S. have been talking about the election on Facebook.WALLACE: Tonight there are just four candidates on this stage. Their position has been determined by their standing in an average of the five most recent national polls as recognized by FOX News, and conducted and released by March 1st. Here they are.Businessman, Donald Trump.(CHEERING) (APPLAUSE)Texas Senator, Ted Cruz.(CHEERING) (APPLAUSE)Florida Senator, Marco Rubio.Advertisement(CHEERING) (APPLAUSE)And, Ohio Governor, John Kasich.(CHEERING) (APPLAUSE)KELLY: Tonight’s rules are simple. Up to 60 seconds for each answer, 30 seconds for each follow-up response, and if a candidate goes over the allotted time, you will hear this.Advertisement(BELL RINGING)BAIER: So pleasant.KELLY: Really.BAIER: We have a big crowd here, and while we expect the audience to be enthusiastic and responsive at times... (CHEERING) (APPLAUSE)BAIER: ... they may have already been — we also expect them to be respectful, and we want the candidates to get their full time. So, somewhere between a library and a Red Wings game.(LAUGHTER) (CHEERING)BAIER: Am I right? Is that OK?Let’s get started.WALLACE: Mr. Trump, as you may have heard, the 2012 Republican nominee for President, Mitt Romney, had some things to say about you today.He said your domestic policy will lead to recession, he’s said your foreign policy will make us less safe, and then he listed what he said are your personal qualities. Quoting now Romney on Trump, quote, “the bullying, the greed, the showing off, the misogyny, the absurd, third-grade theatrics”.(CHEERING)He challenged you to answer with substance, not insults. How do you answer Mitt Romney, sir?TRUMP: Well look, he was a failed candidate, he should have beaten president Obama very easy.He failed miserably, and it was an embarrassment to everybody, including the Republican party. It looked like he went away on a vacation the last month. So, I don’t take that, and I guess, obviously, he wants to be relevant. He wants to be back in the game.As far as domestic policy and trade which is killing our country, he said free trade and I believe in free trade also. But, if you look at China, and you look Japan, and if you look at Mexico, both at the border, by the way, where they’re killing us.AdvertisementBoth at the border, and with trade — and every other country we do business with we are getting absolutely crushed on trade. And, he said free trade, I say free trade great. But, not when they’re beating us so badly.With China we’re going to lose $505 billion dollars in terms of trades. You just can’t do it.Mexico, $58 billion dollars.Japan, probably about, they don’t know it yet, but about $109 billion dollars.Every country we lose money with. As far as I’m concerned, we’ve got to reduce — we have to redo our trade deals 100 percent. I have the greatest business people in the world lined up to do it. We will make...(BELL RINGING)TRUMP: ... great trade deals.(CHEERING)WALLACE: Mr. Trump, Romney also talked about your position on race, and the controversy over your failure to denounce David Duke on Sunday. You have repeatedly disavowed him since then, but I’d like to go deeper than that. What are your views on the Klu Klux Klan, and white supremacists?TRUMP: I totally disavow the Klu Klux Klan. I totally disavow David Duke. I’ve been doing it now for two weeks, this is your — you’re probably about the 18th person that’s asked me the question. It was very clear, that question was also talked about in the form of groups. Groups, I want to know which groups are you talking about? You have to tell me which groups?Ultimately, he got to the Klu Klux Klan, which obviously I’m going to disavow. And, by the way, if you look on my Twitter account, almost immediately after the program they were disavowed again.You know, it’s amazing. When I do something on Twitter, everybody picks it up, goes all over the place. But, when I did this one nobody ever picks it up. Take a look at my Twitter account.WALLACE: Thank you, sir.TRUMP: Thank you. Thanks.(APPLAUSE)BAIER: Senator Rubio, three weeks ago you said, quote: “I don’t do the personal attacks, primarily because it’s not who I am, because I think it’s beneath the office that I’m seeking but also because I don’t want to embarrass my kids.”AdvertisementBut in the past week you’ve mocked Mr. Trump’s tan. You’ve made fun of his spelling. You called him a con artist. You suggested he wet himself backstage at the last debate, along with other vulgar jokes and jabs. So what happened?RUBIO: Yes, you know, Bret, let me say something. This campaign for the last year Donald Trump has basically mocked everybody with personal attacks. He has done so to people that are sitting on the stage today. He has done so about people that are disabled. He has done it about every candidate in this race.So if there is anyone who has ever deserved to be attacked that way, it has been Donald Trump, for the way he has treated people in the campaign.Now that said, I would much prefer to have a policy debate. I hope that’s what we will have here tonight. Let’s have a policy debate...TRUMP: And we will.RUBIO: ... let’s talk about Donald Trump’s strategy and my strategy and Ted’s strategy and John Kasich’s strategy when it comes to ISIS. And on health care and on the important issues facing this country.But let’s be honest too about all this. The media has given these personal attacks that Donald Trump has made an incredible amount of coverage. Let’s start talking again about the issues that matter to this country. I’m ready to do that starting right here right now tonight.BAIER: Mr. Trump, your response?TRUMP: Well, I also happened to call him a lightweight, OK? And I have said that. So I would like to take that back. He is really not that much of a lightweight. And as far as — and I have to say this, I have to say this. He hit my hands. Nobody has ever hit my hands. I have never heard of this. Look at those hands. Are they small hands?(LAUGHTER)TRUMP: And he referred to my hands, if they are small, something else must be small. I guarantee you there is no problem. I guarantee.AdvertisementBAIER: OK. Moving on.KELLY: OK, Senator Cruz, you say that you are the true conservative in this race. But 15 states have voted now, and you have won only four of them. You have lost repeatedly with what is supposed to be your core voter groups, including evangelicals and conservatives.Hasn’t your brand of conservatism been rejected by an electorate that appears to be more taken with Mr. Trump’s populist message?CRUZ: Well, Megyn, you know, at the end of the day for the folks at home, this is not about the insults back and forth between the candidates. This is not about what attacks we can throw at each other. This is the people at home who are struggling through seven years of Barack Obama.This is the single moms who are working two and three jobs, 28, 29 hours a week because their hours have been forcibly reduced because of Obamacare. This is the truck drivers and the steel workers and the mechanics with calluses on their hands who have seen their wages not grow year after year after year while the cost of living goes up.This is all the young people coming out of school with student loans up to their eyeballs that aren’t able to find a job.And I don’t think the people of America are interested in a bunch of bickering school children. They are interested in solutions, not slogans. It’s easy to say, make things better, make things great. You can even print it and put it on a baseball cap.But the question is, do you understand the principles that made America great in the first place? As president, I will repeal every word of Obamacare. I will pull back the regulators that are killing small businesses.And we will pass a simple flat tax and abolish the IRS. And what that’s going to do, Megyn, is small businesses are going to explode. We are going to see millions of high-paying jobs. We are going to see wages going up. We are going to see opportunity.AdvertisementThat’s where our focus needs to be. That’s where my focus is. And that is why our campaign is the only campaign that over and over again has beaten Donald Trump to date, and it’s why we are the one campaign that going forward can and will beat Donald Trump in this election.KELLY: Go ahead, Mr. Trump. TRUMP: I have heard Ted say that over and over again on television, that he is the only one that can beat me. Just, for the record, I have won 10. He has won three or four. Last week, in fact, on Tuesday, I was a half a million votes higher than him. I was a million votes higher than Marco, 1 million votes. That’s a lot of votes. And was by far in first place.So I keep hearing that he is the only one that can beat me but he is getting beaten very, very badly. So where does this come from? Where does it come from?KELLY: Go ahead, Senator Rubio.RUBIO: Yes, I would just say a couple of things. There is no doubt that Donald has done well in these elections. There is no doubt about that. The numbers are there.Here is what the numbers also say. Two-thirds of the people who have cast a vote in a Republican primary or caucus have voted against you. They do not want you to be our nominee.RUBIO: And, the reason why is because we are not going to turn over the conservative movement, or the party of Lincoln or Reagan, for example, to someone whose positions are not conservative. To someone who last week defended Planned Parenthood for 30 seconds a debate stage. To someone, for example, that has no ideas on foreign — someone who thinks the nuclear triad is a rock band from the 1980’s.TRUMP: Oh yeah, you’re...RUBIO: ... To someone who time and again on issue after issue has not proven that he has the principals...(BELL RINGING)RUBIO: ... That outline what the conservative movement has been about. And, as Ted said, the things that made America great.America is great because of the conservative principles of limited government and free enterprise, and a strong national defense...AdvertisementKELLY: ... OK...RUBIO: ... And, our nominee needs to be someone that stands by those things...KELLY: ... Alright...RUBIO: ... Donald has not demonstrated that.KELLY: ... Go ahead, Mr. Trump, and then we’re going to have to go to Governor Kasich.(APPLAUSE)TRUMP: Very nice words, but happens to be wrong. CNN just came out with a poll two days ago that...RUBIO: ... (INAUDIBLE)TRUMP: ... That national poll — excuse me...RUBIO: ... (INAUDIBLE)TRUMP: ... The national poll — a national poll where he’s at 15, he’s at 14... RUBIO: ... (INAUDIBLE)...TRUMP: ... And, I’m at 49, so when he says 75 percent, that would mean that 80 percent of the people don’t dig you, and I’m back down to 50...RUBIO: ... Of all the people on this stage, he performs the worst against Hillary Clinton.TRUMP: Wrong...RUBIO: ... If you’re our nominee, we will lose...TRUMP: ... I beat Hillary Clinton. I beat Hillary Clinton in many polls...RUBIO: ... You lose by (INAUDIBLE) points (ph). She will wipe you out.TRUMP: I beat Hillary Clinton in many polls...AdvertisementRUBIO: If you’re our nominee (INAUDIBLE)...KELLY: ... Hold on, Senator, hold on...TRUMP: ... I think I’m talking...RUBIO: ... Oh, excuse me (INAUDIBLE)...TRUMP: ... I beat Hillary Clinton...KELLY: ... Hold on, hold on, hold on...TRUMP: ... I hope you think (INAUDIBLE)...KELLY: ... The audience cannot understand when you’re talking over each other. Finish your point, Mr. Trump.TRUMP: ... I beat Hillary Clinton in many polls. The Cue (ph) poll just came out. I beat Hillary Clinton in a recent Fox poll, I beat Hillary Clinton in USA Today, I beat her today in a poll in Ohio. I beat — I’m the only one that beats Hillary Clinton.I beat — and I have not started on Hillary yet. Believe me, I will...(CHEERING)TRUMP: ... start soon. I haven’t even started.KELLY: OK.BAIER: Governor Kasich, today you admitted that you have a narrow path to the nomination through a contested convention. Today also Mitt Romney proposed that Republicans should vote for Senator Rubio in Florida. They should vote for you in Ohio. They should vote for Senator Cruz in states that he can beat Mr. Trump to prevent Mr. Trump from getting the nomination.So, do you buy Romney’s blueprint, and can you say tonight to your Florida supporters that they should vote for Senator Rubio to get a contested convention?KASICH: You know, this so much about process. It frankly is boring to me. I would like it clear though, since we’re talking about polls, I beat Hillary Clinton by more than 11 points, and the reason it happens...Advertisement(CHEERING)TRUMP: ... In one poll...KASICH: ... The reason it happens...TRUMP: ... In one poll...KASICH: ... You know, the reason is because, as the Democrats tell me all the time, I can get the crossover votes. You see, because throughout this campaign I’ve talked about issues, I have never tried to go and get into these scrums that we’re seeing here on the stage. And, people say everywhere I go, “you seem to be the adult on the stage.”(APPLAUSE)In terms of — you know, Mitt Romney’s a great guy, but he doesn’t determine my strategy. The fact of the matter is I’m running for president because I worked hard to fix this country when I was in Washington as the Chairman of the Budget Committee where we had some of the most significant job growth after we balanced the budget.We had wages going up, it was very successful in Ohio. Our wages grow faster than the national average. We’re up over 400,000 jobs. We paid down, back in the old days, they paid down half a trillion dollars of the national debt. It’s a formula that works. And, I believe that formula will work when I return to Washington as the president.And, by the way, I won’t need on the job training because I know how to do all of this, and within the first 100 days I will have a plan that will pass the Congress because...(BELL RINGING)KASICH: ... It is reasonable, and I can bring both sides together...(APPLAUSE)BAIER: ... But Governor, this is all about process. For voters, they need to see a path to get to the nomination if they’re going to support you.On Super Tuesday you finished in single digits in nine out of 11 states. So, you can see that your path is through a contested convention. How do you...KASICH: ... Well, Bret, I think we’re all really there. I mean, the simple fact is that, you know, you all wrote me off. You wrote me off before I even got to New Hampshire, then when I finished in New Hampshire you wrote me off in the South, then you wrote me off in Super Tuesday.I split delegates in Vermont with Donald Trump, I finished second in Massachusetts, and we won delegates in Virginia. But, guess what? It’s now March Madness and we’re heading up North to the place — to my turf, OK?Advertisement(CHEERING)KASICH: And, let me just tell you this, I will win Ohio, and I am going to move all across this country, and over time as people begin to finally hear my message — you know what people say, Bret, to me all the time?Why don’t they give you any time on the debate stage? Why is that?(CHEERING)KASICH: So now all of a sudden, I’m starting to get it, and what I want the people to know is, I know how to bring people together, Republicans and Democrats. I have successfully, both at the federal level and the state level brought economic growth, wage growth, and economic security to this country.And I want to go back and do it again, and I’m going to keep talking about my message of bringing people together and motivating people in the neighborhoods that realize they don’t need somebody from Washington galloping in. There are many things they can do where they live, because the strength of our country is in our neighborhoods and our families. And I’m going to keep doing this.(APPLAUSE)BAIER: Thank you.WALLACE: Well, then, we want to focus now on the economy, which is one of the top issues on Facebook, with 6.6 million people discussing it online. A lot of that conversation is happening here in Detroit, where the unemployment rate is 10.9 percent. That’s more than double the national average.Senator Rubio, you have taken to calling Mr. Trump a con artist who portrays himself as a hero to working people while he’s really been, in your words, “sticking it” to the American workers for 40 years. But he has built a big company that employs thousands of people. Question. How many jobs have you created?RUBIO: Well, first of all, government doesn’t...(AUDIENCE BOOS)First of all, Chris, my point is exactly right. He has spent a career of convincing Americans that he’s something that he’s not in exchange for their money. Now he’s trying to do the same in exchange for their country. This is a fact. He talks about these great businesses that he’s built. He inherited over $100 million.TRUMP: Wrong. Wrong.RUBIO: And with that money, he lost more money than he made.WALLACE: Mr. Trump, it’s not your turn. You’ll get your turn, sir.(CROSSTALK)RUBIO: He can start tonight by announcing that all the Donald Trump clothing will no longer be made in China and in Mexico, but will be made here in the United States.Advertisement(APPLAUSE)And on the issue of job creation, I find this interesting. The private sector creates jobs. The jobs of those of us in public service are to put in place policies that allow the economy to grow.That’s the problem with the Democratic Party. They think government is what creates jobs. Government does not create jobs.WALLACE: Sir? Mr. Trump, I’d like you to respond. You have 30 seconds to respond. But as part of that, could you respond to his specific assertion about Trump Collection clothes, which you say some of it is made in Mexico?TRUMP: This little guy has lied so much...RUBIO: Here we go.TRUMP: ... about my record.RUBIO: Here we go. It’s personal.(AUDIENCE BOOS)(CROSSTALK)TRUMP: He has lied so much about my record.WALLACE: Mr. Rubio — Senator Rubio, why don’t you let him finish?TRUMP: And I will tell you this. First of all, I got a call from my sister and brother tonight, and they said we had no idea Dad gave you $200 million. Believe me, I started off with $1 million. I built a company that’s worth more than $10 billion. And I say it not in a bragging way, but that’s the kind of thinking we need.Very low debt, tremendous cash flow. My financials are all — they’re all in there with the federal elections. You’ve seen them. Everybody has seen them. I say it only because that’s the kind of thinking this country needs with $19 trillion in debit. Believe me.Advertisement(APPLAUSE)WALLACE: But wait one second. Specifically and quickly on the question, will you promise that you will — and how soon will you move your clothing collection, the clothes that are made in China and Mexico?TRUMP: They devalue their currencies. I will do that. And by the way, I have been doing it more and more. But they devalue their currencies, in particular China. Mexico is doing a big number now, also. Japan is unbelievable what they’re doing.They devalue their currencies, and they make it impossible for clothing-makers in this country to do clothing in this country. And if you look at what’s happened on Seventh Avenue, and you look at what’s happened in New York with the garment industry, so much of the clothing now comes out from Vietnam, China, and other places. And it’s all because of devaluation.By the way, the Trans-Pacific, if you look at the TPP, a total disaster, which, by the way, Marco is in favor of, they need — it is a disaster for our country. It’s trying to be approved by various people, including President Obama. And I’ll tell you something. The biggest problem with that is: They don’t take into concurrence the devaluation. They’re devaluing their currency.WALLACE: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Trump. Senator Rubio?TRUMP: And they’re killing — they’re going to...(CROSSTALK)WALLACE: Wait, wait, Senator Rubio.RUBIO: The answer is, he’s not going to do it. And you know why? Because there are plenty of clothing makers in America.(APPLAUSE)(CROSSTALK)And the second point, you see what happens, again, when you challenge him on a policy issue. You asked him about the economy, and the first thing he does is launch an attack about some little guy thing. Because he doesn’t have answers.AdvertisementTRUMP: No, no. I have very good answers.RUBIO: And he’s asking us to make him the president of the United States of America.(CROSSTALK) (APPLAUSE)RUBIO: This is not a game.TRUMP: I know what’s happening with the economy. You don’t know a thing.RUBIO: Well, then answer the economy question.TRUMP: You haven’t employed in your life one person.RUBIO: But he doesn’t answer the employment question.TRUMP: I have employed tens of thousands of people.(CROSSTALK)TRUMP: You haven’t employed one person.RUBIO: You ever heard of Trump Steaks? You ever heard of Trump Vodka?TRUMP: Oh, you know what? You know what? Take a look at Trump Steaks.RUBIO: All of these companies he has ruined.TRUMP: By the way, that’s the other thing...RUBIO: Trump Steaks is gone. You have ruined these companies.TRUMP: Mitt Romney...(CROSSTALK)TRUMP: ... false, totally false. And now the funny thing is he didn’t talk about the hundreds of really successful jobs, the buildings all over the world that have made a fortune.The Times reporter Nick Corasaniti discusses key moments from the Republican presidential debate on Thursday in Detroit, as the field of candidates narrowed to a four-man race.(CROSSTALK)WALLACE: I have a policy question for you, sir.RUBIO: Let’s see if he answers it.TRUMP: I will. Don’t worry about it, Marco. Don’t worry about it. Don’t worry about it little Marco, I will.AdvertisementRUBIO: All right, well, let’s hear it big Donald.TRUMP: Don’t worry about it, little Marco.(CROSSTALK)WALLACE: Gentlemen. Gentlemen.(CROSSTALK)WALLACE: You have got to do better than this. TRUMP: This guy has a number one — the number one absentee record in the United States...WALLACE: Mr. Trump, I would like to ask you a policy question.TRUMP: He doesn’t show up to vote.WALLACE: Your proposed tax cut...TRUMP: That’s why the people in Florida do not like him.WALLACE: Mr. Trump, your proposed tax cut would add $10 trillion to the nation’s debt over 10 years, even if the economy grows the way that you say it will. You insist that you could make up for a good deal of that, you say, by cutting waste, fraud, and abuse.TRUMP: Correct.WALLACE: Like what? And please be specific.TRUMP: Department of Education. We’re cutting Common Core. We’re getting rid of Common Core. We’re bringing education locally. Department of Environmental Protection. We are going to get rid are of it in almost every form. We’re going to have little tidbits left but we’re going to take a tremendous amount out.We have various other things. If you look at the IRS, if you look at every single agency, we can cut it down, and I mean really cut it down and save. The waste, fraud, and abuse is massive.Larry Kudlow, great guy, everybody respects him, said my plan for taxes and tax cutting is the best by far of everybody.WALLACE: But, Mr. Trump, Mr. Trump, your numbers don’t add up. Please put up full screen number four. The Education Department, you talk about cutting, the total budget for the education department is $78 billion.AdvertisementAnd that includes Pell grants for low-income students and aid to states for special education. I assume you wouldn’t cut those things. The entire budget for the EPA, the Environmental Protection Agency, $8 billion.TRUMO: OK.WALLACE: The deficit this year is $544 billion. That’s more than a half trillion dollars. Your numbers don’t add up, sir.TRUMP: Let me explain something. Because of the fact that the pharmaceutical companies — because of the fact that the pharmaceutical companies are not mandated to bid properly, they have hundreds of billions of dollars in waste.We don’t bid properly. We don’t have proper bidding procedures. The reason we don’t is because they take care of all of the senators, all of the congressman, and they don’t bid. They don’t go out to bid. WALLACE: Mr. Trump...TRUMP: Take a look — excuse me. You are talking about hundreds of billions of dollars...WALLACE: No, you are not.TRUMP: ... if we went out to the proper bid. Of course you are.WALLACE: No, you’re not, sir. Let’s put up full screen number 2.You say that Medicare could save $300 billion a year negotiating lower drug prices. But Medicare total only spends $78 billion a year on drugs. Sir, that’s the facts. You are talking about saving more money on Medicare prescription drugs...TRUMP: I’m saying saving through negotiation throughout the economy, you will save $300 billion a year.AdvertisementWALLACE: But that doesn’t really cut the federal deficit.TRUMP: And that’s a huge — of course it is. We are going to buy things for less money. Of course it is. That works out...WALLACE: That’s the only money that we buy — the only drugs that we pay for is through Medicare.TRUMP: I’m not only talking about drugs, I’m talking about other things. We will save $300 billion a year if we properly negotiate. We don’t do that. We don’t negotiate. We don’t negotiate anything.KASICH: Can I...WALLACE: No. I promise I will get to you in a moment, sir.Senator Cruz, one of centerpieces of your campaign, in fact, you mentioned it again tonight, is that you will abolish the IRS. Question though, who will collect the taxes that you are still calling for? Who will oversee to make sure that people pay the taxes that they rightfully owe? And who will check on the various tax deductions and tax credits that you still want?When he we get rid of all the corporate welfare, all the subsidies, all the carve-outs in the IRS code, it dramatically simplifies it. And under Obama, the IRS has become so corrupt and so politicized we need to abolish it all together.Now, at the end of that there will still be an office in the Treasury Department to receive the postcards but it will be dramatically simpler. CRUZ: And let me take a moment, Chris, to go back to go back to this exchange that was going on.In between all of the insults, let me point out the specificity that was lacking. It’s very easy to say, “Let’s cut waste, fraud, and abuse.” I’ve rolled out a detailed plan to cut $500 billion in federal spending, specifying exactly what I would cut.(APPLAUSE)It’s easy to say it, but one of the great disconnects to all the people, all of the voters, I understand the folks who are supporting Donald right now. You’re angry. You’re angry at Washington, and he uses angry rhetoric.But for 40 years, Donald has been part of the corruption in Washington that you’re angry about.(APPLAUSE)And you’re not going to stop the corruption in Washington by supporting someone who has supported liberal Democrats for four decades, from Jimmy Carter to John Kerry to Hillary Clinton. You’re not going to stop the corruption and the cronyism by supporting someone who has used government power for private gain. Instead, we need a president who stands with the American people.(APPLAUSE)WALLACE: Governor Kasich, I promise I will get to you. But you do get 30 seconds to respond, Mr. Trump.TRUMP: Well, all of a sudden, I hear for 40 years I’ve been involved in Washington. I have been supporting people for many years. And these people have been politicians, and they’ve been on both sides, Democrats, Republicans, liberals, conservatives. I’ve supported everybody, because, until recently, I wasn’t a politician, and I hope maybe you don’t all consider me a politician right now. I hate the term politician.But I’ve been supporting politicians. A recent article somewhere said Donald Trump is a world-class businessman who goes out and he does get along with everybody. I’ve supported Democrats, and I’ve supported Republicans. And as a businessman, I owed that to my company, to my family, to my workers, to everybody to get along.Part of the problem we have in Washington, Chris...WALLACE: Mr. Trump...TRUMP: ... is it’s total gridlock. Nobody gets along. We need people to get along. We need to be able to get things done.(APPLAUSE)WALLACE: Governor Kasich, Democrats, as you know, will make income inequality a big issue in the general election. You support raising the minimum wage, although you say not to the $15 an hour that Democrats are talking about. Mr. Trump opposes any increase because he says it will price American workers out of the world market. Is he wrong about that? No increase in the minimum wage?KASICH: Well, well, wait a minute, first of all, I didn’t say I was for an increase in the federal minimum wage. I said in Ohio we increased it modestly every single year. So I’m not for a federal minimum wage increase.WALLACE: But you did talk about states doing it.KASICH: Well, states — if states want to do it, they ought to sit down with businesspeople and the lawmakers and figure out what will work. But hold on a second here with everything else.I’m the only person on this stage who actually was the chief architect of balancing the federal budget. It’s not a theory for me. It’s not — it’s not some — you have to know how to put everything together. And you know, I spent 10 years of my life to get there, and I did not do that because I’m worshiping at some balanced budget shrine.The reason I did it is when you have commonsense regulations, lower taxes on individuals and businesses, and you have a fiscal plan that makes sense, the job creators will expand employment. And what happened? When I was there, the jobs were exploding. Bill Clinton’s tried to take credit for it. When I went to Ohio, we’re up 400,000 jobs. It’s the same formula.But it isn’t easy. I fought the entire Washington establishment and won, because when you balance a budget, you must affect every single thing. Everything in the federal government specifically. You cannot get there with theories or broad statements, and you have to be willing to take the heat. In fact, I fought a Republican president, who I thought was not offering constructive proposals to fix this economy.So when we talk about all this, there’s one person on this stage and one person who’s been a candidate for president in either party that restored economic strength, growth, a balanced budget, paid down debt, cut taxes, the things that people in this country want. No theories. Reality.(APPLAUSE)WALLACE: Thank you, Governor.(APPLAUSE)KELLY: All right. Let’s talk immigration for a little bit. Senator Cruz, let’s start with you. You have repeatedly touted how you have stood shoulder to shoulder with Senator Jeff Sessions to fight illegal immigration and amnesty. But Senator Sessions just endorsed Donald Trump. If voters want Jeff Sessions-style immigration policies, isn’t their choice rather clear?CRUZ: Yes, their choice is very clear. If you look to the actual record — you know, Donald mentioned a moment ago that he was just doing business when he was writing checks to liberal Democrats. But that’s not, in fact, the checks he was writing.Listen, we could all understand if you write a check to a city commission because you’re looking for a zoning waiver on building a building. That may be corrupt, but you could understand real estate developers doing that.CRUZ: That’s not what Donald Trump did. Donald Trump supported Jimmy Carter over Ronald Reagan. Donald supported John Kerry over George W. Bush. If you don’t like Obamacare, Donald Trump funded Harry Reid and Nancy Pelosi taking over Congress to pass Obamacare.On immigration, if you don’t like amnesty, if you don’t like the Gang of Eight, Donald Trump funded five of the eight members of the Gang of Eight $50,000.And let’s talk about this election. The choice Republican primary voters are making is who is best prepared to stand up to Hillary Clinton and beat Hillary Clinton. Donald Trump has written checks to Hillary Clinton not once, not twice, not three times. Ten times. And four of those checks were not to her Senate campaign. It wasn’t that she was the New York senator and it was a cost of doing business. It was to her presidential campaign.Donald Trump in 2008 wrote four checks to elect Hillary Clinton as president.KELLY: OK.CRUZ: So I’d like to ask Donald, why did you write checks to Hillary Clinton to be president in 2008? It wasn’t for business. And how can you stand on a debate stage now with her and say you don’t think she should be president?(APPLAUSE)TRUMP: Actually, it was for business. It was. It was. It was for business. I pride myself, including outside of the United States. I’m doing almost 120 deals outside of the — which I hope to be able to stop very soon and let my children handle it — but we’re doing many, many deals outside of the United States.I support politicians. In 2008, I supported Hillary Clinton. I supported many other people, by the way. And that was because of the fact that I’m in business. I did support very heavily Ronald Reagan. I also supported George Bush, by the way.KELLY: All right. Mr. Trump...CRUZ: But what would you say...KELLY: Well, stand by — stand by, Senator Cruz.CRUZ: ... to Hillary Clinton on the debate stage when you wrote her a check in 2008, wrote her four checks to be president?TRUMP: Let me tell you, something, Ted. The last person that Hillary Clinton wants to face is Donald Trump. That I can...(APPLAUSE)KELLY: Let’s move on. And with all due respect, we have — we have questions. We have questions.TRUMP: That I can tell you.(CROSSTALK)KELLY: No, no, no. Hold on. Hold on. We can do more of this later. Mr. Trump, hi.TRUMP: Hello.KELLY: How are you doing?TRUMP: Nice to be with you, Megyn.KELLY: Great to have you here.TRUMP: You’re looking well. You’re looking well.KELLY: As are you.(APPLAUSE)Back in January, you gave an off-the-record interview to the New York Times. It was apparently audiotaped. Now, a recent report in Buzzfeed citing sources at the Times reports that in that interview you expressed flexibility when it comes to your immigration policy, specifically with respect to your promise to deport the 11 million people who are now living here illegally. You have suggested that you may have expressed some flexibility when it comes to the size of the wall that you want to build. But did you tell them, specifically, that you are flexible when it comes to your deportation plan?TRUMP: I don’t know exactly what — when you talk about off the record. First of all, Buzzfeed? They were the ones that said under no circumstances will I run for president. And were they wrong. But a lot of people said that.Then, I did have a meeting with the editorial board of the New York Times, a very nice meeting. Many of those things were off the record, I think at their suggestion and my suggestion. And I think being off the record is a very important thing. I think it’s a very, very powerful thing.And I will say this. These three gentlemen have gone off the record many times with reporters. And I think they want to honor it, and I would always honor that.I will say, though, in terms of immigration — and almost anything else — there always has to be some, you know, tug and pull and deal. And, you know, when I watch Ted stand on the Senate floor, I had great respect for what he did. He stood there for a day-and-a- half or something. In the meantime, what came of it? Nothing. You have to be able to have some flexibility, some negotiation.Now, sometimes you ask for more than you want and you negotiate down to the point. I may have discussed something like that with the New York Times, but I would never release off-the-record conversations. I don’t think it’s fair, frankly, to do that to anybody.KELLY: How flexible are you on this issue?(AUDIENCE BOOS)TRUMP: Not very flexible. No, not very flexible. I give the example — I’m going to build a wall. I’m the one that wants the wall. I’m the one that can build the wall.(APPLAUSE)It’s going to get built. And by the way, Mexico is going to pay for the wall. I can tell you that. Mexico is going to pay for the wall.(APPLAUSE)But — and I used an example. And this isn’t necessarily what was said, but whatever was said, the wall’s 50 feet high. Is it going to be 45 feet or 40 feet? That could very well be. That could very well — he wants it to be higher.(LAUGHTER)That could very well be. But there’s always give and take. There’s always negotiation. And the best negotiator that knows what he’s doing will make a great deal. But we need give and take in government. If you don’t have give and take, you’re never going to agree on anything.(APPLAUSE)KELLY: Senator Rubio, you not only supported the failed immigration reform effort through the Gang of Eight, but you’re still on record as favoring an eventual path to citizenship for those who are here illegally. And in addition...(AUDIENCE BOOS)... you favored in-state tuition for Florida illegal immigrants. You’ve been hitting Mr. Trump hard on this flexibility discussion with the New York Times, but his supporters might say at least his opening stance was tough.RUBIO: Well, first of all, let me say that on the issue of the off-the-record, that’s not up to the New York Times. That’s up to you, Donald. If tonight you tell the New York Times to release the audio, they will do it, and we can exactly see what your true views are on immigration...TRUMP: Fine (ph).RUBIO: ... because it is a major issue, in your campaign that you’ve made a center issue. Now, as far as my record on it is concerned, I absolutely want to solve this issue. And I did the best we could in a Senate that was controlled by liberal Democrats and Harry Reid in the hopes that the House, made up of conservatives, would take it up and make it even stronger. And I said that repeatedly at the time.I’m not just saying that now; I said it throughout that process. We do need to do with this issue. (AUDIENCE BOOS)RUBIO: When I’m president it will not be dealt with the way it was done in the Senate.It will be done first and foremost by bringing illegal immigration under control and proving it to the American people. And only after that is done can anything else happen.And it will be something the American people support. We’ll see what they are willing to support. It’s not going to be an executive order and we’re not going to ram it down their throats.KELLY: Mr. Trump, we will let respond, but will you release the tapes? Will you authorize of The Times to release the tapes?TRUMP: I will say one thing, what Marco said is — I understand it. He is talking about a little give and take and a little negotiation. And you know what? That’s OK. That’s not the worst thing in the world.There is nothing wrong with that. I happen to be much stronger on illegal immigration. Sheriff Joe Arpaio endorsed me. And if he endorses you, believe me, you are the strongest, from Arizona.But give and take is OK. And I thought what he said is OK. We may differ on the degree. But what he said to me is OK.KELLY: Will you release the tapes?TRUMP: No. I never do that. I would not do that. I don’t think — I have too much respect — if I deal with you off the record, if I deal with Bret or Chris off the record, I have too much respect for that process to say, just release everything. I would not do that.KELLY: OK. Stand by. We’re going to continue this right after the break. We have more.BAIER: Coming up, more with Megyn on immigration, plus questions on other top issues, including the war on terror. The “FOX News Republican Presidential Debate Live from Detroit” continues after a quick break.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)KELLY: Welcome back everybody to the FOX News Republican presidential debate, live from the FOX theater here in Detroit. Let’s get back now to the questions.Mr. Trump, your campaign website to this day argues that more visas for highly skilled workers would, quote, “decimate American workers”. However, at the CNBC debate, you spoke enthusiastically in favor of these visas. So, which is it?TRUMP: I’m changing. I’m changing. We need highly skilled people in this country, and if we can’t do it, we’ll get them in. But, and we do need in Silicon Valley, we absolutely have to have.So, we do need highly skilled, and one of the biggest problems we have is people go to the best colleges. They’ll go to Harvard, they’ll go to Stanford, they’ll go to Wharton, as soon as they’re finished they’ll get shoved out. They want to stay in this country. They want to stay here desperately, they’re not able to stay here. For that purpose, we absolutely have to be able to keep the brain power in this country.(APPLAUSE)KELLY: So you abandoning the position on your website...TRUMP: ... I’m changing it, and I’m softening the position because we have to have talented people in this country.KELLY: And you’re not releasing the discussion with the New York Times behind closed doors...TRUMP: ... That is correct.KELLY: Which will have some asking whether, on your immigration policies, you’re really just playing to people’s fantasies, which is a tactic...TRUMP: ... No, I’m not playing.KELLY: ... you praised in your book, The Art of the Deal.TRUMP: I’m not playing to anybody’s fantasies, I’m playing to the fact that our country is in trouble, that we have a tremendous problem with crime. The border is a disaster, it’s like a piece of Swiss cheese. We’re going to stop it, we’re going to stop people from coming into our country illegally. We’re going to stop it.(APPLAUSE) (CHEERING)KELLY: Senator Cruz, not long ago you propose quintupling the number of these foreign worker visas. After you announced for president, you reversed yourself, citing reports that the program was being abused. But, that abuse had been around long before your 180. In fact, it was so bad that just a few months earlier that a bipartisan group of senators called for an investigation and you declined to join them.Isn’t it a good thing that the American public didn’t trust Ted on that one?CRUZ: Well, the abuse of the H1-B program has been rampant. On the face of that H1-B abuse, I have proposed, and promised as president that I will impose a 180 day moratorium on the H1B program to implement a comprehensive investigation and audit because you got U.S. companies that are firing American workers, bringing in foreign workers, and forcing them to train their replacements.And, I would note that is not dissimilar to what we discovered at the last debate concerning the hotel that Donald owns down in Florida. Down in Florida that hotel has brought in hundreds of foreign workers, and afterwards it was really striking.I watched the CNN interview Donald did where he explained, he said, well the problem is you can’t find Americans who are qualified, or who want to work as waiters and waitresses. Now, let me ask the people here, how many people have worked as a waiter or waitress?(APPLAUSE)CRUZ: Millions across this country. That is an astonishing statement. You know, Marco’s Dad started as a bartender. My Dad started washing dishes, and yet, you know how many Americans wanted those jobs?(BELL RINGING)CRUZ: Roughly 300 applied, Donald hired 17. And, that’s why this New York Times tape is so troubling because what’s been reported is that Donald told the Editorial Board of the New York Times what I’m saying on immigration, I don’t believe. I’m not going to build a wall, I’m not going to deport people, this is all just rhetoric for the voters.Now, if he didn’t say that, he has an easy solution. Simply release the tape.But, for everyone at home who’s mad at politicians that lied to us, Donald’s record right now as he standing here...KELLY: ... OK.CRUZ: ... His record right now is one of repeatedly hiring illegal aliens...KELLY: ... Times up, sir...CRUZ: ... abusing (ph) American workers...KELLY: ... Go ahead, Mr. Trump.TRUMP: First of all I’ve had tens of thousands of people working for me, most of which are — 98, 97, 98 percent of the people in this country, from this country. I’m very proud of it. You have a club in Palm Beach, Florida called the Mar-a-Lago Club, it’s a very, very successful club. It has a very short season, it’s called, the Season, and it goes from November until March.It’s a few months, five months at the most. People don’t want a short-term job. They don’t want — so, we will bring people in, and we will send the people out. All done legally, all done with the process that’s...(BELL RINGING)TRUMP: ... Approved by government in Palm Beach, or West Palm Beach. We bring people in, we bring them out. We want to hire as many Americans as we can, but they don’t want part-time, very short part-time jobs.KELLY: Understood. Thank you.RUBIO: That’s not accurate. I’m sorry, Megyn, that’s not accurate. That’s my — there were at least 300 Americans that applied last year, none of them were hired. Some of them...TRUMP: ... Wrong...RUBIO: ... have been interviewed...TRUMP: ... That’s wrong.RUBIO: ... They were not hired...TRUMP: ... Wrong...RUBIO: ... And, here’s why he does it this way, let me explain why he (INAUDIBLE) H2-B...TRUMP: ... Wrong...RUBIO: ... Because when you bring them in this way, when you bring someone in on one of these visas they can’t go work for anybody else. They either work for you or they have to go back home. You basically have them captive, so you don’t have to worry about competing for higher wages with another hotel down the street. And, that’s why you bring workers from abroad.You argue that you’re here to fight on behalf of the American worker, but when you have chances to help the American worker... (BELL RINGING)...RUBIO: ... but when you have chances to help the American workers, you’re making your clothes overseas and you’re hiring your workers from overseas.(APPLAUSE)KELLY: Go ahead, sir.TRUMP: The — the — the other hotels during the season, they do the same thing. They take in a lot of people, because you can’t get them. They take in a lot of people. Long-term employees, we don’t do that, but short-term employees, we have no choice but to do it, and other hotels in that very, very hot area. It is a very hot area.RUBIO: There were Americans in that hot area.TRUMP: It’s very, very hard to get people. But other hotels do the exact same thing. And just so you understand, just again, this is a legal process. This is a procedure. It’s part of the law. I take advantage of that. There’s nothing wrong with it. We have no choice.KELLY: All right.CRUZ: Donald, you could resolve this issue very quickly by simply...(AUDIENCE BOOS)... releasing the New York Times tape. Because, listen, maybe it’s right.TRUMP: This wasn’t on the subject.CRUZ: ... that you didn’t tell them you’re misleading the American people. If that’s the case...TRUMP: Tapes were not on the subject, but that’s...CRUZ: If you didn’t tell them that, the tapes will prove you’re innocent.KELLY: OK.CRUZ: But if, in fact, you went to Manhattan and said I’m lying to the American people, then the voters have a right to know.TRUMP: No, no. You’re the liar. You’re the lying guy up here.(CROSSTALK)CRUZ: Because we’ve been lied to too many times.TRUMP: You’re the — you’re the one. You’re the one.CRUZ: Why don’t you release the tapes? Release the tapes.TRUMP: You’re the one. Now, let me just tell you. Let me just tell you.(CROSSTALK)TRUMP: Excuse me. Excuse me. I’ve given my answer, Lyin’ Ted. I’ve given my answer.KELLY: All right. Let’s leave it at that.(AUDIENCE BOOS)Let’s leave it at that. We have more to get to.(AUDIENCE BOOS)BAIER: Gentlemen, the next topic to discuss is terrorism. Senator Rubio, ISIS is a big topic of conversation on Facebook. We have a map that shows the conservation about ISIS around the country. You proposed sending a larger number of American ground troops to help defeat ISIS in Syria and Iraq...RUBIO: That’s correct, and Libya.BAIER: ... but military commanders say the biggest ISIS threat to Europe in particular now is coming from Libya, not Syria.RUBIO: Correct.BAIER: So just to be clear, if you’re for putting more U.S. ground troops in Iraq and Syria, are you also ready to send U.S. ground troops on the ground in Libya?RUBIO: Well, Bret, what I’ve argued from the very beginning is ISIS — in order to defeat ISIS, you must deny them operating spaces. This is how ISIS or any radical group, for that matter, can grow. It’s how Al Qaida was able to carry out 9/11, is that the Taliban gave them an operating space in Afghanistan.Today that operating space has largely been based in Iraq and Syria, but I’ve been warning about the Libyan presence for the better part of two years. So they need to be targeted wherever they have an operating space. They do need to be defeated on the ground by a ground force made up primarily of Sunni Arabs themselves. This is a radical Sunni movement. They can only be defeated if they are driven out and the territory is held by Sunni Arabs. But it will require a specific number of American special operators, in combination with an increase in air strikes. And that will include, if necessary, operating spaces in Libya, which, in fact, they are using to project into the Sinai against Egypt and ultimately into Europe, as well.BAIER: Governor Kasich, would you put ground troops in Libya?KASICH: Well, first of all, just to be clear, not only did I serve for 18 years on the Defense Committee, more than anybody on this stage, but, secondly, I was called into the Pentagon after 9/11 to help Secretary Rumsfeld with some of his difficulties.I will say, look, let me tell you what happened with Libya. And I pointed out in the last debate — Hillary Clinton worked aggressively to depose Moammar Gadhafi. We had no business doing it. He was working with us. He was cooperating with us. He denuclearized. And now they pushed him out, and now we have a fertile ground for ISIS.Fortunately in Libya, there’s only a few cities on the coast, because most of Libya is a desert. The fact of the matter is, we absolutely have to be — and not just with special forces. I mean, that’s not going to work. Come on. You’ve got to go back to the invasion when we pushed Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait. We have to be there on the ground in significant numbers. We do have to include our Muslim Arab friends to work with us on that. And we have to be in the air.And we — it should be a broad coalition, made up of the kinds of people that were involved when we defeated Saddam. Now, you’ve got to be on the ground and in the air both in Syria and Iraq. And at some point, we will have to deal with Libya. I am very concerned about ISIS getting their hands on the oilfields in Libya and being able to fund their operations. The fact is cool, calm, deliberate, effective, take care of the job, and then come home. That’s what we need to do with our military foreign policy.(APPLAUSE)BAIER: Mr. Trump, just yesterday, almost 100 foreign policy experts signed on to an open letter refusing to support you, saying your embracing expansive use of torture is inexcusable. General Michael Hayden, former CIA director, NSA director, and other experts have said that when you asked the U.S. military to carry out some of your campaign promises, specifically targeting terrorists’ families, and also the use of interrogation methods more extreme than waterboarding, the military will refuse because they’ve been trained to turn down and refuse illegal orders.So what would you do, as commander-in-chief, if the U.S. military refused to carry out those orders?TRUMP: They won’t refuse. They’re not going to refuse me. Believe me.BAIER: But they’re illegal.TRUMP: Let me just tell you, you look at the Middle East. They’re chopping off heads. They’re chopping off the heads of Christians and anybody else that happens to be in the way. They’re drowning people in steel cages. And he — now we’re talking about waterboarding.This really started with Ted, a question was asked of Ted last — two debates ago about waterboarding. And Ted was, you know, having a hard time with that question, to be totally honest with you. They then came to me, what do you think of waterboarding? I said it’s fine. And if we want to go stronger, I’d go stronger, too, because, frankly...(APPLAUSE)... that’s the way I feel. Can you imagine — can you imagine these people, these animals over in the Middle East, that chop off heads, sitting around talking and seeing that we’re having a hard problem with waterboarding? We should go for waterboarding and we should go tougher than waterboarding. That’s my opinion.BAIER: But targeting terrorists’ families?(APPLAUSE)TRUMP: And — and — and — I’m a leader. I’m a leader. I’ve always been a leader. I’ve never had any problem leading people. If I say do it, they’re going to do it. That’s what leadership is all about.BAIER: Even targeting terrorists’ families?TRUMP: Well, look, you know, when a family flies into the World Trade Center, a man flies into the World Trade Center, and his family gets sent back to where they were going — and I think most of you know where they went — and, by the way, it wasn’t Iraq — but they went back to a certain territory, they knew what was happening. The wife knew exactly what was happening.They left two days early, with respect to the World Trade Center, and they went back to where they went, and they watched their husband on television flying into the World Trade Center, flying into the Pentagon, and probably trying to fly into the White House, except we had some very, very brave souls on that third plane. All right?(APPLAUSE)BAIER: Senator Cruz, you were mentioned.TRUMP: I have no problem with it.BAIER: Senator Cruz?CRUZ: Bret, you know, I think the American people understand that yelling and cursing at people doesn’t make you a tough guy. We need a commander-in-chief that, number one, will rebuild the military, just like Ronald Reagan did in 1981 coming out of the weak Jimmy Carter administration. He passed tax reform and regulatory reform. The economy took off. It generated millions in high-paying jobs, trillions in new revenue. He rebuilt the military, bankrupted the Soviet Union, and won the Cold War.As president, I will do the exact same thing with radical Islamic terrorism. We will rebuild this military so that it remains the mightiest fighting force on the face of the planet. And then, when I am commander-in-chief, every militant on the face of the Earth will understand that if they go and join ISIS, if they wage jihad against the United States of America, they are signing their death warrant.(APPLAUSE)BAIER: But, Senator Cruz, in 2013, you said you were open — you were open to the possibility that Edward Snowden had performed a considerable public service, you said back then, in revealing certain aspects of the NSA procedures. Many of your colleagues in the Senate, including Senator Rubio, called him a traitor. It took you until January of this year to call him a traitor and say he should be tried for treason. Why the change of heart? And why did it take you so long?CRUZ: Well, Bret, as someone who spent much of his life in law enforcement, I believe you should start with the facts and evidence first before ending up with the verdict. When the news first broke of the United States government engaging in massive surveillance on American citizens, that was a very troubling development, and it’s why the United States Congress acted to correct it.Now, at the same time, I said in that initial statement that if the evidence indicated that Edward Snowden violated the law, he should be prosecuted for violating the law. And, indeed, since then, the evidence is clear that not only does Snowden violate the law, but it appears he committed treason. Treason is defined under the Constitution as giving aid and comfort to the enemies of America, and what Snowden did made it easier for terrorists to avoid detection.And Snowden’s comments afterwards, and his behavior afterwards, he fled to Russia, he fled to China. His conducts afterwards indicates that he was not a whistleblower, but instead he was undermining the ability to defend this country. But we need a president who isn’t rash, who doesn’t just pop off at the — at the hip, but waits to see what the facts are and then acts to defend this country.(APPLAUSE)BAIER: Mr. Trump, you’ve repeatedly deflected calls for specific national security or defense policy plans with the claim that you’ll ask the best people when you become president, and take their advice.So who are the best people? Can you reveal two or three names that you trust for national security?TRUMP: I think Richard Haass is excellent. I have a lot of respect for him. I think General Keane is excellent. I think that there are — I like Colonel Jacobs very much. I see him. I know him. I have many people that I think are really excellent but in the end it’s going to be my decision.When you just asked the question about Snowden, I will tell you right from the beginning, I said he was a spy and we should get him back. And if Russia respected our country, they would have sent him back immediately, but he was a spy. It didn’t take me a long time to figure that one out. Believe me.But I would get the best people, people that I’d be comfortable with. And we will do the right thing.KASICH: Bret, it’s very interesting to note, I think it’s for the good of the record here that they took a survey of foreign policy magazines, 700 foreign policy experts, who would be the best person to conduct foreign policy of all the candidates in the race?I received 55 percent of the vote. Jeb Bush received 30 percent of the vote. And everybody else, none of them made double digits. And that’s because you have to have the experience.And you know, we hear about Ronald Reagan rebuilding the military. I was there when Ronald Reagan rebuilt the military. I worked with him. I was there when Ronald Reagan rebuilt the economy. I was there, and I worked with him. I knew Ronald Reagan.And I’ll leave it right there with what comes after that. You can figure that one out.BAIER: Governor Kasich, thank you.KELLY: We’re going to have more questions for the candidates right after this break. And during the commercial break, join us for a — Facebook live on the FOX News Facebook page and tell us what you think about tonight’s debate in the comment section. (COMMERCIAL BREAK)BAIER: Welcome back to the historic Fox Theater in downtown Detroit and the Republican presidential debate. Let’s get right back to the questions.KELLY: Mr. Trump, one of the things people love about you is they believe you tell it like it is. But time and time again in this campaign, you have actually told the voters one thing only to reverse yourself within weeks or even sometimes days. We’ve teed up just three examples in a videotape, similar to those we used with Senator Rubio and Senator Cruz in the last debate. The first is on whether the war in Afghanistan was a mistake. Watch.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)CUOMO: What about in Afghanistan? Do you believe that American boots should stay on the ground in Afghanistan to stabilize the situation?TRUMP: We’ve made a terrible mistake getting involved there in the first place. That thing will collapse about two seconds after they leave. Just as I said that Iraq was going to collapse after we leave.(UNKNOWN): About Afghanistan, you said we made a terrible mistake getting involved there in the first place.TRUMP: We made a mistake going into Iraq. I’ve never said we made a mistake...(UNKNOWN): Our question was about Afghanistan. That day on October...TRUMP: Well, OK, I never said that.(UNKNOWN): ... was on Afghanistan.TRUMP: OK. Wouldn’t matter. I never said it.(END VIDEO CLIP)KELLY: Next, on whether we should accept...TRUMP: Should I respond to that first?KELLY: Two more, and then you’ll have the floor. Next on whether we should accept the Syrian refugees...Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.TRUMP: You’ll be here a long time.KELLY: On whether we should accept the Syrian refugees.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)O’REILLY: Do you object to migrants who are getting out of the Middle East and North Africa? Do you object to them coming to the USA?TRUMP: I hate the concept of it, but on a humanitarian basis, with what’s happening, you have to. It’s living in Hell in Syria; there’s no question about it. They’re living in Hell.HANNITY: Are you saying absolutely people from Syria, the Middle East, should we allow any of them into this country?TRUMP: Look, from a humanitarian standpoint, I’d love to help, but we have our own problems. We have so many problems that we have to solve.(END VIDEO CLIP)KELLY: Most recently, on whether President George W. Bush lied to get us into the Iraq war.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)TRUMP: They lied. They said there were weapons of mass destruction; there were none. And they knew there were none.I don’t know if he lied or not. He could have lied. Maybe he did. Maybe he didn’t. I guess you’d have to ask him.(END VIDEO CLIP)KELLY: And there are many other examples. So how is any of this “telling it like it is”?TRUMP: Well, on Afghanistan, I did mean Iraq. I think you have to stay in Afghanistan for a while, because of the fact that you’re right next to Pakistan, which has nuclear weapons, and we have to protect that. Nuclear weapons change the game.And I was always against going into Iraq. In fact, I — believe me, I was always against it. There was some cases where I sort of — in one interview with a great friend of mine, and yours, Howard Stern — said that — said that...(LAUGHTER)I said very meekly, long before we went in, I said very meekly, well, maybe, maybe, I don’t know. By the time it got to that point, I was always against Iraq. But Afghanistan, I felt — and in that one, if you notice, I corrected it the second day. OK? Second question? KELLY: There are several examples, Mr. Trump.TRUMP: No, no. But...KELLY: We went through the Afghanistan being a mistake. Within one day, you reversed yourself on Syrian refugees.TRUMP: Now on — let me explain that. You’re right. Let me explain. First time the question had been put to me, it was very early on. The migration had just started. And I had heard that the number was a very, very small number.By the second day, two or three days later, I heard the number was going to be thousands and thousands of people. You know, when they originally heard about it, they were talking about bringing very, very small numbers in.And I said, begrudgingly, well, I guess maybe that’s OK. It was not like, “Let’s bring them in,” because I think we should build a safe zone in — we should really — what we should be doing is building safe zones so they can stay in their own country and not go all over, and at least this way we’re not going to have the problem. That’s what we have to do.(APPLAUSE)But just — just to set — because I fully understand what you’re asking. When I first heard the question, first time the question was ever asked to me, first time I really had known about the question, the migration had just started. I was very much like, OK, by the time I went back and studied it, and they were talking about bringing thousands and thousands, I changed my tune. And I don’t think there’s anything wrong with that.KELLY: But the point I’m going for is you change your tune on so many things, and that has some people saying, what is his core?TRUMP: Megyn, I have a very strong core.(APPLAUSE)I have a very strong core. But I’ve never seen a successful person who wasn’t flexible, who didn’t have a certain degree of flexibility. You have to have a certain degree of flexibility.(APPLAUSE)You can’t — for instance, let’s say, on — on the second question, you can’t say it’s OK, and then you find out it’s not OK, and you don’t want to do anything. You have to be flexible, because you learn. I mean, before I knew the question was asked by Bill, and the next day, or the couple of days later, the question was asked by, by — you know — I was asked by a number of people, actually. I was asked by Sean, but I was asked by a number of people. But by that time, the number had increased significantly.KELLY: Sean was the next day after Bill.TRUMP: The next day. But I had learned. I mean, nobody had ever asked me the question. This was brand new. But — and I really mean it. You have to show a degree of flexibility. If you’re going to be one way and you think it’s wrong, does that mean the rest of your life you have to go in the wrong direction because you don’t want to change? (APPLAUSE)KASICH: Megyn.TRUMP: (INAUDIBLE)KELLY: Go ahead, Governor.KASICH: I did 200 meetings in New Hampshire, I don’t know how many in Michigan now. In these townhalls people come in and they’re very emotional meetings. And, you know what they really want to know? If somebody tells them something, can they believe it?And, the reason why people are so upset in this country is because politicians all the time tell them what they want to hear. And, they go to Washington, or they go to the state capital, wherever, and they don’t deliver on those promises.You know, when I ran for Governor of Ohio, I said not only would we balance the budget, but we would cut taxes. People said that can’t be done. I wouldn’t have said it if I didn’t believe it.We cut taxes in Ohio more than any governor in the country, and $5 billion dollars worth of tax cuts — we’re not running a surplus in Ohio. But, you see, what’s getting in the hearts and souls of the people is they want change, and they keep putting outsiders in to bring about the change, then the change doesn’t come. Then they put more outsiders in because we’re putting people in that don’t understand compromise. They don’t understand policy...(BELL RINGING)(APPLAUSE)KASICH: ... They’re getting more and more frustrated with the system which is why we must pick somebody that has a record of achievement, not just talk.KELLY: OK.KASICH: Not just talk, but a record of achievement. That’s how we’ll restore credibility..RUBIO: ... This isn’t just about flexibility.KELLY: Go ahead, Senator. RUBIO: There’s a difference between flexibility and telling people whatever you think you need to say to get them to do what you want them to do.(CHEERING)RUBIO: And, that’s what Donald has done throughout his career.TRUMP: (INAUDIBLE)RUBIO: Well, he did, and that’s why Trump University...TRUMP: ... That’s not right...RUBIO: ... Is so relevant here. I saw this video last week where he’s sitting in front of a camera saying we’re going to hire the best people, and I’m going to hand pick them. There are going to be hand picked and instructors, the best instructors in the world. One of them, but the way, was the manager at a Buffalo Wild Wing. And, that’s who they hired to do this, and people borrowed money, and they signed up for this fake university.And, these people owe all this money now, and they got nothing in return for it, but you are willing to say whatever you had to say...(BELL RINGING)RUBIO: ... To get them to give you their money...KELLY: ... Go ahead, Mr. Trump...TRUMP: ... We’ll find out when we have the (INAUDIBLE)...RUBIO: ... And, we’re not going to do that to our country...TRUMP: ... And, by the way, just so you understand...(APPLAUSE)TRUMP: ... This is a case I could have settled very easily, but I don’t settle cases very easily when I’m right. Ninety-eight percent approval rating, we have an “A” from the Better Business Bureau...RUBIO: ... That’s false...TRUMP: ... We have a 98 percent approval rating from the people who took the course. We have an “A” from the Better Business Bureau. And, people like it. Now, he’s saying they didn’t learn.We have many, many people that will be witnesses. Again, I don’t settle cases. I don’t do it because that’s why I don’t get sued very often, because I don’t settle, unlike a lot of other people.We have a situation where we will win in court...(BELL RINGING) TRUMP: But, many of the people that are witnesses did tremendously well, and made a lot of money...RUBIO: ... That’s false...TRUMP: ... By taking the course.KELLY: Go ahead, Senator.TRUMP: You’re going to see, you don’t know...RUBIO: ... The Better Business Bureau gave it a “D” minus.TRUMP: You’re going to see, you’re going to see.KELLY: ... It’s Senator Rubio’s turn...TRUMP: ... No, no. Before they had the information...TRUMP: ... Before they had the information...KELLY: ... Senator Rubio, standby, let him finish his point, and then I’ll give you the floor...TRUMP: ... Before they had the information it got — it is right now an “A”, once they had the information...RUBIO: ... (INAUDIBLE) this anymore.TRUMP: ... The only reason that is was a “D” was because we didn’t care — we didn’t give them the information...RUBIO: ... A third of the people (INAUDIBLE)...TRUMP: ... When they got the information it became an “A”...KELLY: ... With respect — wait. With respect...TRUMP: ... Marco you don’t know (INAUDIBLE)...KELLY: ... With respect, we went back and looked at this...TRUMP: ... Yes.KELLY: The rating from the Better Business Bureau was a “D” minus...(CHEERING) (APPLAUSE) TRUMP: ... (INAUDIBLE)KELLY: ... that’s the last publicly available rating in 2010, and it was the result of a number of complaints they had...The New York Times will be checking assertions made throughout the 2016 presidential campaign.TRUMP: ... But it was elevated to an “A”...UNIDENTIFIABLE MALE: (INAUDIBLE)KELLY: ... That’s never been publicly available.TRUMP: ... I can give it to you. I can give it to you tomorrow..KELLY: ... Let’s just bring the viewers up to speed, let’s just bring the viewers up to speed.TRUMP: ... It was elevated to an “A”.KELLY: Let me just set the record, and then you guys can have at it. There was Trump University, which was a business that you started, and it was marketed...TRUMP: ... Small business...KELLY: ... to many people, and now there is a class-action of over 5,000 plaintiffs against you, Mr. Trump...TRUMP: ... Right...KELLY: ... And, it involves veterans, and it involves teachers, and it involves so-called little guys, working class, and lower- working class and middle class who say that they were fleeced, who say that it was as scam. The class has been certified, and in that case you counter-sued the lead plaintiff alleging that you were being defamed.That case was thrown out against her...TRUMP: ... The lead plaintiff is now getting out of the case because it’s so bad for her...KELLY: ... But, what happened was...TRUMP: ... Excuse me, the lead plaintiff signed a letter saying how great it was, and it on tape saying how great it was.KELLY: OK, no, but — standby. But, what happened in that case was you counter-sued her. The court threw out your counter-suit, and made you pay almost $800,000 dollars in legal fees of hers, and you made the same argument about 98 percent of the people being happy with Trump University. And, that woman in particular signing a survey saying she liked it while someone was standing over her shoulder...TRUMP: ... She’s trying to get out of the case. She’s trying to get out of the case...KELLY: ... And this is what — standby, this is what the Court of Appeals found. They said that the plaintiffs against you are like the Madoff victims...TRUMP: Oh, give me a break... KELLy: ... This is what the Court of Appeals said.TRUMP: Give me a break.KELLY: This is what the court of appeals said.TRUMP: Give me a break.KELLY: They found that victims of con artists often sing the praises of their victimizers until they realize they have been fleeced.TRUMP: You know what, let’s see what happens in court. This is a civil case. Very easy to have settled. Could settle it now. Very easy to have settled. Let’s see what happens at the end of a couple years when this case is over, OK?KELLY: It has been going for five years.TRUMP: Yes, it has been going for a long time.KELLY: Go ahead, Senator.RUBIO: I spoke to one of the victims yesterday.TRUMP: We’ll win the case.RUBIO: I spoke to one of the victims yesterday.TRUMP: One, one of the victims.RUBIO: No, there are several. Obviously there are so many, I can’t talk to them every day. I spoke to one of them, he told me exactly what happened. They signed up for this course because they believed Mr. Trump was this fantastic businessman, that Donald is going to teach them the tricks of the trade.They signed up. They paid $15,000 for this course. They were asked for additional money for this course. If they really wanted the real secrets of success, they had to pay even more money, and so they did.And you know what they got in these courses? Stuff you can pull off of Zillow. When they finally realized what a scam it was, they asked for their money back.And you refused to give them their money back. Why don’t you tonight...TRUMP: I gave many people their money back. RUBIO: Then why don’t you tonight say you’re going to give the money back to everybody who wants...TRUMP: Let me just...(CROSSTALK)KELLY: OK. Senator Rubio, let him answer.(CROSSTALK)KELLY: Let him answer.Go ahead, Mr. Trump.TRUMP: We will see who’s right at the end of a few years. But all of the — almost all of the people, many, many people signed what’s called the report card at the end, did you like the course, how did you like it.Almost all of them said it was terrific, OK? With letters, with this. Some of them are on tape saying it was terrific. Let’s see what happens at the end of three years.KELLY: With respect, Mr. Trump, one-third of the plaintiffs in that case demanded refunds. So it’s not the case that 98 percent were...TRUMP: I gave some refunds to people because if they asked for the refunds in a certain period of time, and we gave refunds to people.KELLY: OK.TRUMP: But let’s see what happens at the end of three years. Let’s see who’s right.KELLY: Still a pending litigation.(CROSSTALK)TRUMP: It’s called pending litigation.RUBIO: Megyn, this is why this is relevant to this election.KELLY: All right. Senator Rubio then Senator Cruz. Go ahead.RUBIO: This is why, because he’s trying to do to the American voter what he did to the people that signed up for this course. He’s making promises he has no intention of keeping. And it won’t just be $36,000 that they lose, it’s our country that’s at stake here.The future of the United States and the most important election in a generation, and he’s trying to con people into giving them their vote just like he conned these people into giving him their money. TRUMP: Let me tell you the real con artist. Excuse me. Excuse me. The real con artist is Senator Marco Rubio who was elected in Florida and who has the worst voting record in the United States Senate.He doesn’t go to vote. He’s absent. He doesn’t go. Now, the people of Florida can’t stand him. He couldn’t get elected dogcatcher. The people of Florida — the people of Florida — and by the way, I know he’s going to spend $25 million on ads. Without that he wouldn’t have a chance. He’s 20 points south.The people in Florida wouldn’t elect him dogcatcher. He couldn’t get any — he’s right now 21 points down to me. And, you know...KELLY: OK.TRUMP: ... again, there will be a lot of advertising. It’s the only thing that might save him. But I doubt it.RUBIO: Notice that’s not an answer.KELLY: I’m coming to you next. But go ahead.(CROSSTALK)TRUMP: He scammed the people of Florida. He scammed people. He doesn’t vote. He doesn’t show up for the U.S. Senate. He doesn’t vote. He scammed the people. He defrauded the people of Florida.KELLY: With respect, you’ve made that point.Go ahead.RUBIO: There’s no — as you can see in his answer, it’s always the same thing.TRUMP: You defrauded the people of Florida, little Marco.RUBIO: He has defrauding people out of things, and not just — and not just, by the way, on the issue of Trump University. He had another development in Mexico that he had nothing to do with except his name on the building. People put money into that building.TRUMP: That was licensing.RUBIO: They lost their money. Yes, licensing, but you told them you owned the building. So they gave him his money. They lost their money. Time and again...KELLY: All right. Stand by. I will come back to you. Senator Cruz wants to weigh in. You’re coming back.Go ahead.CRUZ: Megyn, let me ask the voters at home, is this the debate you want playing out in the general election? The stakes in this election are too high. For seven years, millions of Americans, we’ve been struggling, wages have been stagnating, people are hurting, our constitutional rights are under assault.And if we nominate Donald, we’re going to spend the spring, the fall, and the summer with the Republican nominee facing a fraud trial...TRUMP: Oh, stop it.CRUZ: ... with Hillary Clinton saying...TRUMP: It’s just a minor case. It’s a minor case.CRUZ: ... why did you give my campaign and my foundation $100,000?TRUMP: It’s a minor civil case.CRUZ: And with Hillary Clinton...TRUMP: Give me a break.CRUZ: ... pointing out that he supported her four times in her presidential race.TRUMP: It’s a minor civil case.CRUZ: Donald, learn not to interrupt. It’s not complicated.TRUMP: There are many, many civil cases.CRUZ: Count to 10, Donald. Count to 10.TRUMP: Give me a break.CRUZ: Count to 10. The stakes are too high and if you are one of the 65 to 70 percent of Republicans who recognize that nominating Donald would be a disaster, then I ask you to come join us. If you’re supporting other candidates, come join us.We welcome you to our team because we’ve demonstrated not once, not twice, not three times, but five separate times we have beat Donald. And if you don’t want him to be the nominee, then I ask you to stand with us as a broad coalition of people who believe in the Constitution, believe in freedom, and want to turn this country around.KELLY: Go ahead, Mr. Trump.TRUMP: I don’t believe these politicians. All talk, no action. I’m standing here listening to — I’m hearing him say about a percentage. CNN, he gets 15. That means 85 percent, based on what you’re saying, of the people don’t dig you, number one, number one. Is that a correct statement? How do you get — are you at 15 in the new CNN poll? Do you believe in CNN? I mean, I know we’re with FOX. But CNN spent — CNN...CRUZ: All right, I’ll respond...(CROSSTALK)TRUMP: CNN spent a lot of money on a poll, just came out. I’m at 49. He’s at 15. He tells me about 65 percent of the people. It’s not 65 percent of the people. If you go by that, 85 percent of the people.Then he goes, we have five. And — well, excuse me, I won 10. I won 10 states. If you listen to him, it’s like — I won 10 states. Everybody knows that on Super Tuesday Trump was the winner. There wasn’t one person that didn’t say that. Even the two people on your left and right said we did a great job. So how does he take — how does he take five and say it’s better than 10?KELLY: Go ahead, Senator.TRUMP: I am by far the leader. But if you listen to a politician, he’ll try and convince you otherwise.KELLY: Senator Cruz, go.CRUZ: All right, well, Donald lives by the polls every day. He tweets about the polls.TRUMP: No, I don’t. No, I don’t.CRUZ: He’s told us to look to the CNN poll. Well, that’s a very good poll to look to, because that CNN poll showed that head to head Donald Trump loses to Hillary Clinton by 8 points. He doesn’t just lose close; he loses by 8 points. That same poll he told you to look at shows me beating Hillary Clinton.(APPLAUSE)We cannot mess this up. And, by the way, the last four polls in a row, when you nominate a candidate who literally has been on every side of every issue, and in the course of this debate may be on two other sides before we’re done, that’s not how you win. And the stakes are too high. (CROSSTALK)KELLY: All right. I’m going to let Mr. Trump — I’m going to let — let me just...TRUMP: According to your poll...(CROSSTALK)KELLY: I’m going to let you respond to that, Mr. Trump. I’m going to then go to you, Governor. You’re up next.TRUMP: ... I know, but your recent polls have me beating Hillary Clinton, and very, very easily.KELLY: OK. Do you want to weigh in?KASICH: All right, look, honestly, when I see people at these meetings, these town halls, where we take massive questions, and I get to spend time with them. Last night, there was a woman that came to tell me about the loss of her 15-year-old son, who took his own life.See, there’s people in this country — and Ted’s right — their wages haven’t gone up for so long, they see the rich get richer, they believe, and they’re not moving. And they put their money in the bank, and they got no interest on their money. They receive none. And their sons or daughters are living in the basement because they can’t get a good job after they rang up so much college debt.What people are hungry for is, who can fix this? People want to know who — what can you do to solve the problems in Washington, to make sure that we have stronger job growth and better wages? But you know what else they’re yearning for? They want to believe that they have the power to fix things where they live, and they want the power back, so they can begin to do things in their community.Now, listen, this has been going on for a long time here. And I appreciate the discussion back and forth. But there are a lot of people out there yearning for somebody who’s going to bring America back, both at the leadership level and in the neighborhood, where we can begin to reignite the spirit of the United States of America. And let’s stop fighting.(APPLAUSE)KELLY: Governor, thank you. Gentlemen, thank you.WALLACE: Much more to come live from the Fox Theater, including where the candidates stand on the social issues facing the country. The Republican presidential debate continues in a moment.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)KELLY: Welcome back, everybody, to the Fox News Republican presidential debate. We want to get right back to the questions.(APPLAUSE)BAIER: We are here in Detroit. The top issues in Michigan, according to Facebook, are displayed in a word cloud you’re taking a look at. The second biggest issue is clean water. That, of course, is directly tied with the situation in Flint.Senator Rubio, Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton have both been to Flint. They are both running ads in this state focusing on that, focusing on supporting Flint and fixing the problems, showing images of people in Flint thankful that they’re there.Without getting into the political blame game here, where are the national Republicans’ plans on infrastructure and solving problems like this? If you talk to people in this state, they are really concerned about Flint on both sides of the aisle. So why haven’t GOP candidates done more or talked more about this?RUBIO: Well, I know I’ve talked about it, and others in our campaign have talked about it, and other candidates have talked about it, as well. What happened in Flint was a terrible thing. It was systemic breakdown at every level of government, at both the federal and partially the — both the state and partially at the federal level, as well.And by the way, the politicizing of it I think is unfair, because I don’t think that someone woke up one morning and said, “Let’s figure out how to poison the water system to hurt someone.”(APPLAUSE)But accountability is important. I will say, I give the governor credit. He took responsibility for what happened. And he’s talked about people being held accountable...(APPLAUSE)... and the need for change, with Governor Snyder. But here’s the point. This should not be a partisan issue. The way the Democrats have tried to turn this into a partisan issue, that somehow Republicans woke up in the morning and decided, “Oh, it’s a good idea to poison some kids with lead.” It’s absurd. It’s outrageous. It isn’t true.(APPLAUSE)All of us are outraged by what happened. And we should work together to solve it. And there is a proper role for the government to play at the federal level, in helping local communities to respond to a catastrophe of this kind, not just to deal with the people that have been impacted by it, but to ensure that something like this never happens again.BAIER: Thank you, Senator.(APPLAUSE)KELLY: Governor Kasich, the city of Detroit has long suffered with urban blight, broken street lights, dilapidated and vacant houses, and so on. In 2013, Detroit actually declared bankruptcy, which helped, but the schools here remain a big problem. They’re $3.5 billion in debt and are some of the most troubled and poorly testing in the country. The kids too often go to classrooms that are unsafe, falling apart, infested with rodents and insects. Experts say the schools could go bankrupt by next month.Question to you. If the federal government bailed out the auto industry here in Detroit, should it also bail out the Detroit schools?KASICH: Well, look, first of all, I think the mayor now is controlling the schools. This is not much different than what happened in Cleveland, Ohio, where the African-American Democrat mayor, the union, and business leaders came to see me and said, “Would you help us to pass legislation to really create a CEO environment so that we can take control of the schools?”We even invested in a buyout plan, where we bought out the teachers who had been there a long time, because there were so many young teachers who had been laid off who were so enthusiastic to get back in the schools. It worked beautifully. Cleveland’s coming back. The Cleveland schools are coming back because of a major overhaul.It’s the same thing that has to happen in all of our urban schools. And, frankly, look, if I were president, I’d take 104 federal programs, bundle them into four buckets, and send it to the states, because fixing schools rests at the state and the local level, and particularly at the school board level. (APPLAUSE)KASICH: Now, I also believe — I also believe that you need to introduce vocational education in those schools. You need mentoring in those schools. And you need to have a situation where people can have an alternative forum to get a degree. And you need school choice, both vouchers and charter schools. All of those things can come together to help, Megyn.But here’s the bottom line. And I’ll go quickly. We as adults have to fight in our neighborhoods, in our communities, for our children’s education. Put the politics aside, and everyone in this room can play a role in lifting their schools and lifting the students who are in those schools, because too much politics gets in the middle of it, and where we focus as adults, and put children first, we see tremendous results. And the people of this town are going to rise. And they need to be involved. Thank you.(APPLAUSE)WALLACE: For — for half a century, as you all know, Detroit was the symbol of America’s industrial might: 300,000 manufacturing jobs in this city. At last count, there are now fewer than 30,000 manufacturing jobs here, and the unemployment rate in this city is 11 percent, twice the national average.Senator Cruz, I know that you have general plans for tax reform, but what specifically would you do to bring manufacturing jobs back to America and train residents of cities like Detroit to do those jobs?CRUZ: Well, Chris, thank you for that question. Let me start by observing that Detroit is a great city with a magnificent legacy that has been utterly decimated by 60 years of failed left-wing policy.(APPLAUSE)You know, Henry Ford revolutionized automobile manufacturing and brought automobiles to the middle class. During World War II, Detroit provided — funded the arsenals of democracy to help us win World War II. In — in the 1960s, Detroit was the Silicon Valley of America. It had a population of 2 million people, had the highest per capita income in the country.And then, for 50 years, left-wing Democrats have pursued destructive tax policies, weak crime policies, and have driven the citizens out. (APPLAUSE)This city now has just 700,000 citizens. There are vacant homes, one after the other after the other. Crime has been rampant, and it is an outrage. And let me say to folks in the media: That is a story that the media ought to be telling over and over again, the destruction of left-wing policies and the millions who have hurt because of it.(APPLAUSE)WALLACE: Well, I was going to say, I’ll give you 30 seconds to try to answer my question. What specifically would you do to bring manufacturing jobs back to Detroit and to train the residents here to do those jobs?CRUZ: The way you bring manufacturing back to America is, number one, you lift the regulations. As president, I will repeal Obamacare, the biggest job-killer in America.I will pull back the federal regulators, the EPA and all the regulators that are killing small businesses and manufacturing.What that will do, Chris, is bring millions of manufacturing jobs back to this country, bring the steel industry back to this country, create an environment where when we compete on a fair and level playing field, American ingenuity can beat anyone. But right now, the federal government isn’t giving us a level playing field.WALLACE: Thank you, Senator.(APPLAUSE)BAIER: Gentlemen, the next series of questions will be on social issues. Governor Kasich, the last debate, you were asked a question about religious liberty, in a hypothetical situation where a same-sex couple approaches a cupcake maker to do their wedding. Here’s what you said.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)KASICH: If you’re in the business of selling things, if you’re not going to sell to somebody you don’t agree with, today I’m not going to sell to somebody who’s gay, then tomorrow maybe I won’t sell to somebody who’s divorced.(END VIDEO CLIP)BAIER: Governor, some faith leaders got nervous about that answer. Do gay marriage dissenters have rights?KASICH: Well, look, first of all, I try to be a man of faith every day as best as I can, and I try to focus in my faith on the dos and I think the don’ts will take care of themselves once I get the dos right, which is humility, and loving my enemy, and caring for my neighbor.But secondly, look, you’re in the commerce business, you want to sell somebody a cupcake, great. OK? But now if they ask you to participate in something you really don’t like, that’s a whole ‘nother issue, OK? Another issue.Here’s what I’d like to see happen. The Supreme Court ruled, I don’t agree with the ruling. I’m of favor of marriage between — you know, traditional marriage, a man and a woman. What I hope was going to happen after the Supreme Court ruling is things would settle down.If you go to a photographer to take pictures at your wedding, and he says, I’d rather not do it, find another photographer, don’t sue them in court. You know what, the problem is in our country — in our country, we need to learn to respect each other and be a little bit more tolerant for one another.And at the end of the day, don’t go to court. Can’t we have common sense in America? That’s the way it used to be. And there was a book written called “The Death of Common Sense.” We need to bring it back.But at the end of the day, if somebody is being pressured to participate in something that is against their deeply-held religious beliefs, then we’re going to have to think about dealing with the law.But you know what, I’d rather people figure this out without having to put another law on the books and have more arguments in this country. Why don’t we come together as a country, respect one another, love one another and lift this country? I think that’s what people want.So thanks for asking.BAIER: Senator Cruz, the U.S. Supreme Court obviously declared same-sex marriage legal in all 50 states, a decision you have criticized. Given the current status of the law, do you believe a gay couple should be able to adopt?CRUZ: Well, listen, adoption is decided at the state level and I am a believer in the 10th Amendment in the Constitution, I would leave the question of marriage to the states, I would leave the question of adoption to the states.That’s the way it has been for two centuries of our nation’s history until five unelected judges in an illegitimate and wrong decision decided to seize the authority over marriage and wrongfully tear down the marriage laws of all 50 states.Now, interconnected to this is the question of religious liberty. And at the last debate, one of my colleagues on this stage said on the question of religious liberty and Supreme Court nominees that he’d be willing to compromise and negotiate.The New York Times checks assertions made by the Republican presidential candidates during Thursday’s debate in Detroit.I can tell you, for me, there are areas that we should compromise on. Marginal tax rates, we can reach a middle ground on. But when it comes to core principles and convictions, when it comes to the Constitution and Bill of Rights, I can tell the men and women at home I will never compromise away your religious liberty.And for me, Bret, religious liberty has been a lifelong passion. I’ve spent two decades defending religious liberty, including defending the Ten Commandments before the U.S. Supreme Court and winning. Defending the Pledge of Allegiance before the Supreme Court and winning.And defending the Mojave Desert Veterans Memorial, a lone white Latin cross that was erected to honor the men and women who gave their lives in World War I. I represented 3 million veterans for free defending that memorial and we won 5-4 before the Supreme Court.BAIER: Senator, thank you.Senator Cruz definitely avoided saying your name, Mr. Trump, but I think he was referring to you and your religious liberty answer. Would you like to respond?TRUMP: I have nothing to say. I mean, generally speaking, agree with what he said. I would have certainly have rather left it to the states. I was always in favor — I was very surprised when they came up with that decision.I would have certainly — I would have preferred had it been left to the states and I think most people would have preferred that.BAIER: Senator Rubio, the late Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, a conservative icon, obviously, pointed out, in the United States versus Heller, that like most rights, the Second Amendment right is not unlimited.Just like the First Amendment doesn’t allow you to go into a theater and yell fire, he said the Second Amendment leaves room to regulate guns. So do you agree with Justice Scalia? And if so, what limits would you draw around the Second Amendment?RUBIO: As few as possible. The Second Amendment, as I’ve said before, is not a suggestion. It is the constitutional right of every American to protect themselves and their families. It is a right that — it is the Second Amendment for a reason.It is right after the defense of the freedom of speech for a reason, for clearly the founders of our nation understood and the framers of the Constitution understood that you cannot have life and you cannot have liberty and cannot pursue happiness if you are not safe.RUBIO: And the Second Amendment — when people talk about gun laws, what they need to realize is, criminals don’t follow gun laws. They’re criminals. By definition, they ignore the law.(APPLAUSE)But the gun rights of Americans, if you are talking to a law- abiding citizen and a gun-owner like myself, if you pass a law, I will follow whatever the law is. A criminal will not do it. They will continue to pursue these guns on the black market, where they then go out and commit crimes and they steal guns from each other.Gun laws are not effective. They simply do not provide for safety. But they do, however, ensure that law-abiding people don’t have access to weapons to protect themselves and guns to protect themselves, but criminals always will be well armed. They don’t care about the law; they don’t follow the law. We will protect the Second Amendment when I’m president of the United States.(APPLAUSE)BAIER: Mr. Trump, you were once a supporter of an assault weapons ban. So do you think there should be any restrictions on the Second Amendment?TRUMP: No, I’m a big defender of the Second Amendment. And if you look at what’s happened, whether it’s in California, where you had the 14 people killed, whether it’s in Paris — which, by the way, has the toughest gun laws in the world and 130 people killed. Many, many people in the hospital gravely injured. They will be dying. Many people will be dying in addition.If we had guns, or if they had guns on the other side of the room, with the bullets going in the opposite direction, you would not have had 130 people killed. That I can tell you right now.(APPLAUSE)So I’m a very, very big supporter of the Second Amendment.BAIER: But in 2000, you wrote in your book, “I generally oppose gun control, but I support the ban on assault weapons.”TRUMP: I don’t support it anymore. I do not support the ban on assault.(AUDIENCE BOOS)BAIER: Senator Cruz? Any limits to the Second Amendment?CRUZ: Well, listen, unlike Donald, I would not support banning firearms. In that instance, Bill Clinton banned many of the most popular firearms in America. And by the way, the study showed that ban did nothing to reduce violent crime. It just took away the Second Amendment rights of law-abiding citizens.(APPLAUSE)And let me point out, you know, it is easy for political candidates to have rhetoric and say, “I support the Second Amendment.” But you cannot say that and at the same time say what Donald just said, which is that on the question of Supreme Court nominees he wants to compromise and reach a middle ground with Harry Reid and Chuck Schumer. That’s what he said in the last debate.TRUMP: I — I did not say that. I did not say that.CRUZ: And any justice that Harry Reid and Chuck Schumer sign off on...TRUMP: I did not say that.CRUZ: And I would point out, Harry Reid and Chuck Schumer are both Democrats that Mr. Trump has written checks to repeatedly. Any justice that those two sign off on is going to be a left-wing judicial activist who will undermine religious liberty, and we are one vote away from the Heller decision being overturned, which would effectively erase the Second Amendment from the Bill of Rights.If you care about the Second Amendment, then you need to ask who on this stage do you know will appoint principled constitutionalists to the court and not cut a deal with your Second Amendment rights?BAIER: Mr. Trump...TRUMP: So we’re listening to the all-talk, no-action politician, and he was the primary supporter of John Roberts, who gave us Obamacare.CRUZ: That’s flat-out wrong.TRUMP: No, it’s not. You take a look. He was the primary supporter. He pushed John Roberts, and pushed him, and pushed him, and Bush ultimately appointed him. He got appointed. And when it came his time to raise his hand and kill Obamacare, not once, but twice, he let us down, and he did the wrong thing.This is the man that was the primary supporter. And you can read law journal, you can read whatever you want to read — I’ve read plenty of it. There was no stronger supporter of John Roberts than him. And it was a very, very big mistake.BAIER: Quickly, Senator Cruz. CRUZ: You know, Donald has a tenuous relationship with the truth.(LAUGHTER)I wrote one op-ed supporting President Bush’s nomination after he made it. I would not have made that nomination. But let me point out...TRUMP: Not what you say in the op-ed.CRUZ: ... if Donald actually cared about...TRUMP: That is not what you said in the op-ed.CRUZ: But, Donald, please, I know it’s hard not to interrupt. But try.TRUMP: Yeah, I know it is. But it’s not what you said in the op-ed.CRUZ: Breathe, breathe, breathe.TRUMP: Lyin’ Ted.CRUZ: You can do it. You can breathe. I know it’s hard. I know it’s hard. But just...RUBIO: When they’re done with the yoga, can I answer a question?CRUZ: You cannot.(LAUGHTER)RUBIO: Unbelievable.CRUZ: I really hope that we don’t — we don’t see yoga on this stage.RUBIO: Well, he’s very flexible, so you never know.(APPLAUSE)CRUZ: But you cannot, in fact, care about conservative Supreme Court justices and support Jimmy Carter for president. You cannot care about conservative Supreme Court justices and support John Kerry for president, as Donald did. You cannot care about conservative Supreme Court justices and support Harry Reid for Senate majority leader.And you cannot care about conservative Supreme Court justices and write four checks to Hillary Clinton for her to be president if you care at all about the Second Amendment or religious liberty or anything else.BAIER: Gentlemen, gentlemen, we’re going to move on. Thank you very much. We want to talk about some more policy questions coming up.WALLACE: And coming up, the candidates tackle foreign policy. But first, during the commercial break, join us for a Facebook live on the Fox News Facebook page and tell us what you think about tonight’s debate in the comments section. Stay with us. More to come. (COMMERCIAL BREAK)KELLY: Welcome back, everybody. We’re going it get right back to the questions.WALLACE: And gentlemen, we’re going to focus for a bit now on foreign policy.Senator Rubio, you like to take a shot at Mr. Trump on the campaign trail saying that negotiating a hotel deal in a foreign country is not foreign policy. The other day you even compared him to Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, as lunatics trying to get a hold of nuclear weapons.Please tell Mr. Trump why he’s unprepared to be commander-in- chief.RUBIO: Well, first of all, I think, as we’ve seen throughout this campaign, Donald has not shown a seriousness about the issues of foreign policy. He just simply hasn’t.Whether it was the structure of our military, even today he was asked a question about the issue of commanders not following his lead on killing the family of terrorists. And his answer basically was, if I tell them to do it, they’re going to do it. Now that’s just not true.Foreign policy is not only consequential, I think much of our future now depends on it. You know, I see a lot of young people at my events around the country. I feel great when they come.And I always them that despite the hardships of the moment, I honestly believe that today’s Millennials have a chance to be the greatest generation we’ve had in 100 years. I really do.Because the world today has hundreds of millions of people that can afford to be their clients, their customers, their partners, people they collaborate with. But that won’t happen if the world is dangerous and it’s unstable.And that will require strong American leadership. The next president of the United States is going to have eight years of a mess of a foreign policy to clean up. That’s why it can’t be Hillary Clinton.And quite frankly, that’s why it can’t be someone who simply has not shown the intellectual curiosity or the interest in learning about these very complicated issues. And Donald simply hasn’t.WALLACE: Mr. Trump, your response.TRUMP: Well, let me just say this. I’ve gotten to know Marco over a period of time, believe me, he is not a leader. Believe me.RUBIO: But that doesn’t answer the question. (CROSSTALK)WALLACE: He didn’t interrupt you. Let him talk.TRUMP: He didn’t answer — he’s not a leader. And, frankly, when I say they’ll do as I tell them, they’ll do as I tell them. And that’s very — it’s very simple. It’s very simple.We are in a very dangerous place. We have a depleted military. Totally depleted. We have — by the way, our vets are treated horribly. We’re going to take care of our vets. We’re going to start taking care of our vets, properly, like we should.(APPLAUSE)But we’re going to build up our military, and we’re going to get the equipment we want, not the equipment that’s sold to us by somebody that gave him and him and not the governor campaign contributions. OK? We’re going to get the equipment that the generals and the soldiers want.I will prove to be a great leader. And, you know, it’s very interesting, we talk about the polls. Every single poll when it comes to ISIS and the military and the border say, by far, Trump is the best.WALLACE: Mr. Trump, your time is up.RUBIO: Yeah, I just want to — a couple points. Once again, he was pressed on a policy issue to show his understanding of the foreign policy, and his reaction was just to attack somebody else with a name.Here’s the bottom line. And I’m going to repeat it again. The world today is as complicated and as complex as it has been certainly in a very — certainly in the lifetime of anybody here today. You indeed do have a lunatic in North Korea with nuclear weapons. You indeed do have the Chinese government taking over the most important shipping lane in the world. And Vladimir Putin, who you’ve expressed admiration for, Donald...TRUMP: Wrong. Wrong.RUBIO: You’ve expressed admiration for him.TRUMP: Wrong.(CROSSTALK)RUBIO: Donald, you said he’s a strong leader.TRUMP: Wrong.RUBIO: He is now dividing Europe up...TRUMP: He said very good things about me, and I said...(CROSSTALK)RUBIO: All right, I’m going to finish my statement here.TRUMP: Yeah, finish.RUBIO: And he’s also sowing instability in the Middle East. You have Iran who’s going to get $100 billion of sanctions relief. You have radical jihadists spreading all over the world. This is a time for seriousness on these issues. You have yet to answer a single serious question about any of this. Will you give us a detailed answer about foreign policy any time you’re asked on it?TRUMP: Let me just tell you, first of all, I’ve been hearing this man so long talking about Putin. Putin said about me — I didn’t say about Putin — Putin said very nice things about me. And I say very nicely, wouldn’t it be nice if actually we could get along with Russia, we could get along with foreign countries, instead of spending trillions and trillions of dollars?You’re talking about Flint, Michigan. You’re talking about places — we need to rebuild the infrastructure of our country. Wouldn’t it be nice if we got along with the world, and maybe Russia could help us in our quest to get rid of ISIS, et cetera, et cetera?(CROSSTALK)WALLACE: Gentlemen, you both have had a chance to talk. You both have had a chance to talk a couple of times. I’d like to move on to Senator Cruz. Senator, we have some breaking news tonight. North Korea’s dictator, Kim Jong-un, has ordered that country’s nuclear weapons to be made ready at a moment’s notice.CRUZ: Yes. Yes.WALLACE: And this comes just hours after the U.N. Security Council announced that — approved the toughest sanctions in two decades against that country. Assume you’re President Cruz tonight. What do you do?CRUZ: Well, you’re right, the news is very disturbing that Kim Jong-un has put their nuclear weapons on ready state. I’m glad that we’re sending another carrier group to the South China Sea. I’m glad that Congress passed sanctions on North Korea.But this is all the result of the failures of the Clinton administration two decades ago that negotiated a deal with North Korea lifting the sanctions, allowing billions of dollars to flow in, and they used that money to develop nuclear weapons in the first place.What we — now we’re in a much harder position. When you have a lunatic with nuclear weapons, to some extent, it constrains your options. We need to be moving the carrier — carrier group to the South China Seas. We — we need to be putting in place missile defense, such as the THAAD missile defense system in South Korea.We need to be pursuing space-based missile defense. One of the advantages of space-based missile defense is that if you have a missile launch in North Korea or you have a missile launch in Iran, a space-based missile defense can take out one or two or three missiles before it can cross over and do damage.And we also need to be putting pressure on China, because North Korea is effectively a — a client state of China. All of that will happen with a strong commander-in-chief that is devoted to keeping this country safe.WALLACE: Thank you, Senator.Governor Kasich, I want to move back to the debate that we heard earlier about Vladimir Putin. In December, after Vladimir Putin had some nice thing to say about Donald Trump, calling him bright and talented, your campaign ran a video suggesting that Trump might name the Russian president as his running mate. Here’s a clip.KASICH: I’ll have to see this.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)(UNKNOWN): If elected, Trump promised that the dictatorial duo would, quote, “make tyranny great again.”TRUMP: I think I’d get along very well with Vladimir Putin. I just think so.(END VIDEO CLIP)(LAUGHTER)WALLACE: That was your campaign video, sir.KASICH: That was a pretty good one.WALLACE: Well, OK.KASICH: No, I...(CROSSTALK)WALLACE: If I may — sir, if I may ask my question...KASICH: Of course.WALLACE: I think you were kidding...WALLACE: But it was your video and the serious question is, because the suggestion is, do you think that Donald Trump is naive about the threat that Vladimir Putin represents?KASICH: I’m not biting. Let me take you around the world, OK? Let me — look, I’m going to take you very quickly.In Russia, we need to tell them we’re going to arm the Ukrainians with defensive lethal weapons. And we’re going to tell Putin if you attack anybody in Eastern Europe in NATO, you attack Finland and Sweden, which is not in NATO, consider it an attack on us. And he will understand that.Secondly, I would tell the Chinese you don’t own the South China Sea. Stop hacking us. And we’re going to beef up our cyber command. And we’re going to be in a position to be able to take out your systems if you continue to do this.Now let’s move over into the Middle East. The Egyptians, they know they’re on their last legs there because of the attack from ISIS. The Jordanians are — really have been our friends. They know that they are at risk. So do the Saudis. So do the Gulf states.They are our allies, really, or have similar aims, we need to bring them closer to us. Turkey a critical avenue to the Middle East. We have to bring them towards the West, and not towards the East.WALLACE: Governor...KASICH: And we have a joint, good human intelligence. That is called a semi-trip around the world. And if you gave me more time, I’d finish the trip.WALLACE: Governor, thank you.KASICH: Thank you.BAIER: Coming up, a final question and closing statements. And take a look at this. The volume of conversation on Facebook surrounding the remaining candidates over the last month. Whether that conversation is good or bad, Donald Trump clearly dominates the field.We’ll be back with more of the Republican presidential debate live from Detroit. (COMMERCIAL BREAK)BAIER: Welcome back to the Republican presidential debate. Let’s get back at it.Gentlemen, this is the last question of the night. It has been a long time since our first debate, seven months ago in Cleveland. A lot has transpired since then, obviously, including an RNC pledge that all of you signed agreeing to support the party’s nominee and not to launch an independent run. Tonight, in 30 seconds, can you definitively say you will support the Republican nominee, even if that nominee is Donald J. Trump?Senator Rubio, yes or no?RUBIO: I’ll support the Republican nominee.BAIER: Mr. Trump? Yes or no?RUBIO: I’ll support Donald if he’s the Republican nominee, and let me tell you why. Because the Democrats have two people left in the race. One of them is a socialist. America doesn’t want to be a socialist country. If you want to be a socialist country, then move to a socialist country.The other one is under FBI investigation. And not only is she under FBI investigation, she lied to the families of the victims of Benghazi, and anyone who lies to the families of victims who lost their lives in the service of our country can never be the commander- in-chief of the United States.BAIER: Senator...RUBIO: We must defeat Hillary Clinton.BAIER: Senator Cruz, yes or no, you will support Donald Trump is he’s the nominee?CRUZ: Yes, because I gave my word that I would. And what I have endeavored to do every day in the Senate is do what I said I would do. You know, just on Tuesday, we saw an overwhelming victory in the state of Texas where I won Texas by 17 percent.And I will say it was a powerful affirmation that the people who know me best, the people who I campaigned, who made promises that if you elect me, I’ll lead the fight against Obamacare, I’ll lead the fight against amnesty, I’ll lead the fight against our debt, and I will fight for the Bill of Rights and your rights every day, that the people of Texas said you have kept your word, and that’s what I’ll do as president.BAIER: Governor Kasich, yes or no, would you support Donald Trump as the Republican nominee?KASICH: Yeah. But — and I kind of think that, before it’s all said and done, I’ll be the nominee. But let me also say...(APPLAUSE)But let me also say, remember...BAIER: But your answer is yes?KASICH: But I’m the little engine that can. And, yeah, look, when you’re in the arena, and we’re in the arena. And the people out here watching — we’re in the arena, we’re traveling, we’re working, we spend time away from our family, when you’re in the arena, you enter a special circle. And you want to respect the people that you’re in the arena with. So if he ends up as the nominee — sometimes, he makes it a little bit hard — but, you know, I will support whoever is the Republican nominee for president.(APPLAUSE)WALLACE: Mr. Trump, I’m going to ask you a version of the same question. As we saw today with Mitt Romney, the #NeverTrump movement is gaining steam. Some people are talking about contributing millions of dollars to try to stop you. Again today, you raised the possibility that you might run as an independent if you feel you’re treated unfairly by the Republican Party.So I’m going to phrase the question that the other three people on this stage just got. Can you definitively say tonight that you will definitely support the Republican nominee for president, even if it’s not you?TRUMP: Even if it’s not me?(LAUGHTER)Let me just start off by saying...WALLACE: Thirty seconds, sir.TRUMP: ... OK — that I’m very, very proud of — millions and millions of people have come to the Republican Party over the last little while. They’ve come to the Republican Party. And by the way, the Democrats are losing people. This is a trend that’s taking place. It’s the biggest thing happening in politics, and I’m very proud to be a part of it. And I’m going to give them some credit, too, even though they don’t deserve it. But the answer is: Yes, I will.WALLACE: Yes, you will support the nominee of the party? TRUMP: Yes, I will. Yes. I will.KELLY: Candidates, it’s now time for your closing statements. Governor Kasich, we’ll start with you.KASICH: Well, ladies and gentlemen, I love being here in Michigan, and I want to say to all of you here that I have a record of being able to solve some of the biggest problems. It’s not just talk, and it’s not theory.I did it in Washington by helping people get into a healthier economic situation. I’ve done it in Ohio. And as we’ve made progress in Ohio, we’ve left no one behind. We’ve not left behind the mentally ill, the drug addicted, the working poor, the developmental disabled, and we have raised our minority community.And as president of the United States, I will go back to Washington, I will take the formulas that I used, and I will — I will fix the problems in Washington, and you’ll work with me as I send you power to fix your — your communities, your neighborhoods, your state, and together, we’ll restore the spirit of America. And I know you want that. Thank you.(APPLAUSE)WALLACE: Senator Rubio, 30 seconds, closing statement.RUBIO: Well, I know this has been an unusual election cycle, as it continues, and there’s a lot of problems in America, and people are truly hurting. But this election is not just about confronting our problems; it’s also about embracing our opportunities.(APPLAUSE)BAIER: Senator Cruz, your closing statement?CRUZ: I want to talk to every soldier and sailor and airman and Marine. I want to talk to every mom and dad and sister and brother and son and daughter of someone fighting for this country. For seven years, you’ve had a commander-in-chief that doesn’t believe in you, that sends you into combat with rules of engagement that tie your arms behind your back. That is wrong. It is immoral. And in January 2017, it will end.I want to also talk to all the police officers and firefighters and first responders who have been left behind with this president. Starting in January 2017, I will have your back.(APPLAUSE)KELLY: Mr. Trump, your closing statement.TRUMP: Thank you. I am going to bring jobs back to the United States like nobody else can. We’re going to fix our very depleted military. We’re going to take care of our vets. We’re going to strengthen our borders. And you’re going to be very, very proud of this country in just a few years if I’m elected president. Thank you.KELLY: Thank you, sir.And that will do it for the 11th Republican primary debate of the 2016 presidential race. But the night is not over yet.WALLACE: Not by a long shot. A special edition of “The O’Reilly Factor” is next. And remember, Fox News has the race for the White House covered, all the way to the conventions and onto the general election.BAIER: Our thanks to Detroit and the crowd here. Thank you again for joining us. Have a great evening.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementThe Times reporter Michael D. Shear analyzes key moments from the third Republican presidential debate in Boulder, Colo., on Wednesday. It included sharp early exchanges, including one between Jeb Bush and Marco Rubio.Following is a transcript of the main Republican debate, as transcribed by the Federal News Service.QUINTANILLA: Good evening, I’m Carl Quintanilla, with my colleagues Becky Quick and John Harwood. We’ll be joined tonight by some of CNBC’s top experts on the markets and personal finance.QUINTANILLA: Let’s get through the rules of the road. Candidates get 30 seconds to answer the opening question, 60 seconds to answer a formal question, 30 seconds for follow-ups and rebuttals, all at the discretion of the moderators.We want you to weigh in from home. You’ll see your tweets at the bottom of the screen. Use the hashtag, #cNBCgopdebate. You can also go to cNBC.com/vote to tell us where you stand throughout the night.So let’s introduce the candidates for tonight’s Republican presidential debate. On the stage from left to right, Governor John Kasich.Advertisement(APPLAUSE)Governor Mike Huckabee.(APPLAUSE)Governor Jeb Bush.(APPLAUSE)Senator Marco Rubio.(APPLAUSE)AdvertisementMr. Donald Trump.(APPLAUSE)Dr. Ben Carson.(APPLAUSE)Mrs. Carly Fiorina.(APPLAUSE)Senator Ted Cruz.(APPLAUSE)Governor Chris Christie.(APPLAUSE) And Senator Rand Paul.(APPLAUSE)A lot to get to tonight. So let’s get started. This first is an open question.This series of debates is essentially a job interview with the American people. And in any job interview, you know this: you get asked, “what’s your biggest weakness?” So in 30 seconds, without telling us that you try too hard or that you’re a perfectionist...(LAUGHTER)...what is your biggest weakness and what are you doing to address it? We’ll go left to right. Governor Kasich, 30 seconds.KASICH: Good question, but I want to tell you, my great concern is that we are on the verge, perhaps, of picking someone who cannot do this job.I’ve watched to see people say that we should dismantle Medicare and Medicaid and leave the senior citizens out — out in the — in the cold. I’ve heard them talk about deporting 10 or 11 — people here from this country out of this country, splitting families. I’ve heard about tax schemes that don’t add up, that put our kids in — in a deeper hole than they are today.We need somebody who can lead. We need somebody who can balance budgets, cut taxes...QUINTANILLA: Governor?AdvertisementKASICH: You know, frankly, I did it in Washington, in Ohio, and I will do it again in Washington, if I’m president, to get this country moving again.KASICH: country moving again.QUINTANILLA: Governor Huckabee.HUCKABEE: Well, John, I don’t really have any weaknesses that I can think of.(LAUGHTER)But my wife is down here in the front, and I’m sure, if you’d like to talk to her later, she can give you more than you’ll ever be able to take care of.If I have a weakness, it’s that I try to live by the rules. I try to live by the rules, no matter what they are, and I was brought up that way as a kid. Play by the rules.And I’ll tell you what a weakness is of this country: there are a lot of people who are sick and tired because Washington does not play by the same rules that the American people have to play by.QUINTANILLA: Thank you, Governor. Governor Bush.BUSH: You know, I am by my nature impatient. And this is not an endeavor that rewards that. You gotta be patient. You gotta be — stick with it, and all that.But also, I can’t fake anger. I believe this is still the most extraordinary country on the face of the Earth. And it troubles me that people are rewarded for tearing down our country. It’s never been that way in American politics before.BUSH: I can’t do it. I just don’t believe that this country’s days are going to be deeply — you know, going down. I think we’re on the verge of the greatest time, and I want to fix the things to let people rise up.AdvertisementQUINTANILLA: Senator Rubio.RUBIO: Thank you for that question. I would begin by saying that I’m not sure it’s a weakness, but I do believe that I share a sense of optimism for America’s future that, today, is eroding from too many of our people.I think there’s a sense in this country today that somehow our best days are behind us. And that doesn’t have to be true.Our greatest days lie ahead if we are willing to do what it takes now. If we’re willing to do what it takes now, the 21st century is going to be the new American century, greater than any other era we’ve had in the history of this great nation.QUINTANILLA: Mr. Trump?TRUMP: I think maybe my greatest weakness is that I trust people too much. I’m too trusting. And when they let me down, if they let me down, I never forgive. I find it very, very hard to forgive people that deceived me. So I don’t know if you would call that a weakness, but my wife said “let up.”(LAUGHTER)QUINTANILLA: Dr. Carson?CARSON: Probably in terms of the applying for the job of president, a weakness would be not really seeing myself in that position until hundreds of thousands of people began to tell me that I needed to do it. I do, however, believe in Reagan’s 11th commandment, and will not be engaging in awful things about my compatriots here.And recognizing that it’s so important, this election, because we’re talking about America for the people versus America for the government.QUINTANILLA: Mrs. Fiorina?FIORINA: Well, gee, after the last debate, I was told that I didn’t smile enough. (LAUGHTER)QUINTANILLA: Fixed it.FIORINA: But I also think that these are very serious times; 75 percent of the American people think the federal government is corrupt. I agree with them. And this big powerful, corrupt bureaucracy works now only for the big, the powerful, the wealthy and the well-connected. Meantime, wages have stagnated for 40 years. We have more Americans out of work or just Americans who quit looking for work for 40 years.AdvertisementOurs was intended to be a citizen government. This is about more than replacing a D with an R. We need a leader who will help us take our government back.QUINTANILLA: Senator Cruz?CRUZ: I’m too agreeable, easy going.(LAUGHTER)You know, I think my biggest weakness is exactly the opposite. I’m a fighter. I am passionate about what I believe. I’ve been passionate my whole life about the Constitution. And, you know, for six-and-a-half years, we’ve had a gigantic party. If you want someone to grab a beer with, I may not be that guy. But if you want someone to drive you home, I will get the job done and I will get you home.QUINTANILLA: Governor Christie?CHRISTIE: I don’t see a lot of weakness on this stage, quite frankly. Where I see the weakness is in those three people that are left on the Democratic stage. You know, I see a socialist, an isolationist and a pessimist. And for the sake of me, I can’t figure out which one is which.(LAUGHTER)But I will — but I will tell you this, the socialist says they’re going to pay for everything and give you everything for free, except they don’t say they’re going to raise it through taxes to 90 percent to do it. The isolationist is the one who wants to continue to follow a foreign policy that has fewer democracies today than when Barack Obama came into office around the world.But I know who the pessimist is. It’s Hillary Clinton. And you put me on that stage against her next September, she won’t get within 10 miles of the White House. Take it to the bank.QUINTANILLA: Senator Paul?PAUL: You know, I left my medical practice and ran for office because I was concerned about an $18 trillion debt. We borrow a million dollars a minute. Now, on the floor of the Congress, the Washington establishment from both parties puts forward a bill that will explode the deficit. It allows President Obama to borrow unlimited amounts of money.I will stand firm. I will spend every ounce of energy to stop it. I will begin tomorrow to filibuster it. And I ask everyone in America to call Congress tomorrow and say enough is enough; no more debt.QUINTANILLA: Thanks to all the candidates.John?HARWOOD: Mr. Trump, you’ve done very well in this campaign so far by promising to build a wall and make another country pay for it.AdvertisementTRUMP: Right.HARWOOD: Send 11 million people out of the country. Cut taxes $10 trillion without increasing the deficit.TRUMP: Right.HARWOOD: And make Americans better off because your greatness would replace the stupidity and incompetence of others.TRUMP: That’s right.HARWOOD: Let’s be honest.(LAUGHTER)Is this a comic book version of a presidential campaign?TRUMP: No, not a comic book, and it’s not a very nicely asked question the way you say that.Larry Kudlow is an example, who I have a lot of respect for, who loves my tax plan. We’re reducing taxes to 15 percent. We’re bringing corporate taxes down, bringing money back in, corporate inversions. We have $2.5 trillion outside of the United States which we want to bring back in.As far as the wall is concerned, we’re going to build a wall. We’re going to create a border. We’re going to let people in, but they’re going to come in legally. They’re going to come in legally. And it’s something that can be done, and I get questioned about that. They built the great wall of China. That’s 13,000 miles. Here, we actually need 1,000 because we have natural barriers. So we need 1,000.TRUMP: We can do a wall. We’re going to have a big, fat beautiful door right in the middle of the wall. We’re going to have people come in, but they’re coming in legally. And Mexico’s going to pay for the wall because Mexico — I love the Mexican people; I respect the Mexican leaders — but the leaders are much sharper, smarter and more cunning than our leaders.And just to finish, people say, how will you get Mexico to pay? A politician other than the people in the states — I don’t want to — a politician cannot get them to pay. I can. We lose, we have a trade imbalance...Excuse me, John.... of $50 billion...HARWOOD: We’re at the 60 seconds.TRUMP: ... believe me the world is peanuts by comparison.AdvertisementHARWOOD: We’re at 60 seconds, but I gotta ask you, you talked about your tax plan. You say that it would not increase the deficit because you cut taxes $10 trillion in the economy would take off like...(CROSSTALK)HARWOOD: Hold on, hold on. The economy would take off like a rocket ship.TRUMP: Right. Dynamically.HARWOOD: I talked to economic advisers who have served presidents of both parties. They said that you have as chance of cutting taxes that much without increasing the deficit as you would of flying away from that podium by flapping your arms.TRUMP: Then you have to get rid of Larry Kudlow, who sits on your panel, who’s a great guy, who came out the other day and said, I love Trump’s tax plan.(CROSSTALK)HARWOOD: The Tax Foundation says — has looked at all of our plans and — and his creates, even with the dynamic effect, $8 trillion dollar deficit... QUICK: Gentlemen — we’ll — we’ll get back to this — just a minute — just a minute we’re gonna continue this.I wanna talk taxes...QUINTANILLA: Hold it. We’ll cut it back to you in just a minute. Becky’s moving on.QUICK: Dr. Carson, let’s talk about taxes.You have a flat tax plan of 10 percent flat taxes, and — I’ve looked at it — and this is something that is very appealing to a lot of voters, but I’ve had a really tough time trying to make the math work on this.If you were to took a 10 percent tax, with the numbers right now in total personal income, you’re gonna come in with bring in $1.5 trillion. That is less than half of what we bring in right now. And by the way, it’s gonna leave us in a $2 trillion hole.AdvertisementSo what analysis got you to the point where you think this will work?CARSON: Well, first of all, I didn’t say that the rate would be 10 percent. I used the tithing analogy.QUICK: I — I understand that, but if you — if you look at the numbers you probably have to get to 28.CARSON: The rate — the rate — the rate is gonna be much closer to 15 percent.QUICK: 15 percent still leaves you with a $1.1 trillion hole.CARSON: You also have to get rid of all the deductions and all the loopholes. You also have to some strategically cutting in several places.Remember, we have 645 federal agencies and sub-agencies. Anybody who tells me that we need every penny and every one of those is in a fantasy world.So, also, we can stimulate the economy. That’s gonna be the real growth engine. Stimulating the economy — because it’s tethered down right now with so many regulations...QUICK: You’d have to cut — you’d have to cut government about 40 percent to make it work with a $1.1 trillion hole.CARSON: That’s not true.QUICK: That is true, I looked at the numbers.CARSON: When — when we put all the facts down, you’ll be able to see that it’s not true, it works out very well.AdvertisementQUICK: Dr. Carson, thank you.KASICH: Listen, I want to just comment.HARWOOD: Governor Kasich, hold it, I’m coming to you right now. The...KASICH: Well I want to comment on this. This is the fantasy...HARWOOD: Well, I’m asking you about this.KASICH: This is the fantasy that I talked about in the beginning.HARWOOD: I’m about to ask you about this.That is, you had some very strong words to say yesterday about what’s happening in your party and what you’re hearing from the two gentlemen we’ve just heard from. Would you repeat it?KASICH: I’m the only person on this stage that actually was involved in the chief architect of balancing the Federal Budget.You can’t do it with empty promised. You know, these plans would put us trillions and trillions of dollars in debt.I actually have a plan. I’m the only one on this stage that has a plan that would create jobs, cut taxes, balance the budget and can get it done because I’m realistic. You just don’t make promises like this.Why don’t we just give a chicken in every pot, while we’re, you know, coming up — coming up with these fantasy tax schemes. We’ll just clean it up. Where are you gonna clean it up?AdvertisementYou have to deal with entitlements, you have to be in a position to control discretionary spending. You gotta be creative and imaginative.Now, let me just be clear, John. I went into Ohio where we had an $8 billion hole and now we have a $2 billion surplus. We’re up 347,000 jobs.When I was in Washington, I fought to get the budget balanced. I was the architect. It was the first time we did it since man walked on the moon. We cut taxes and we had a $5 trillion projected surplus when I left.That’s was hard work. Fiscal discipline, know what you’re doing. Creativity.This stuff is fantasy. Just like getting rid of Medicare and Medicaid. Come on, that’s just not — you scare senior citizens with that. It’s not responsible.HARWOOD: Well, let’s just get more pointed about it. You said yesterday that you were hearing proposals that were just crazy from your colleagues.Who were you talking about?KASICH: Well, I mean right here. To talk about we’re just gonna have a 10 percent tithe and that’s how we’re gonna fund the government? And we’re going to just fix everything with waste, fraud, and abuse? Or that we’re just going to be great? Or we’re going to ship 10 million Americans — or 10 million people out of this country, leaving their children here in this country and dividing families?Folks, we’ve got to wake up. We cannot elect somebody that doesn’t know how to do the job. You have got to pick somebody who has experience, somebody that has the know-how, the discipline.And I spent my entire lifetime balancing federal budgets, growing jobs, the same in Ohio. And I will go back to Washington with my plan.AdvertisementQUINTANILLA: Governor — Governor. thank you, Governor.KASICH: And I will have done it within 100 days, and it will pass. And we will be strong again. Thank you.QUINTANILLA: Mr. Trump, 30 seconds.TRUMP: First of all, John got lucky with a thing called fracking, OK? He hit oil. He got lucky with fracking. Believe me, that is why Ohio is doing well. Number — and that is important for you to know.Number two, this was the man that was a managing general partner at Lehman Brothers when it went down the tubes and almost took every one of us with it, including Ben and myself, because I was there and I watched what happened.And Lehman Brothers started it all. He was on the board. And he was a managing general partner.And just thirdly, he was so nice. He was such a nice guy. And he said, oh, I’m never going to attack. But then his poll numbers tanked. He has got — that is why he is on the end.(LAUGHTER) And he got nasty. And he got nasty. So you know what? You can have him.(CROSSTALK)KASICH: Let me just — let me respond. First of all, Ohio does have an energy industry, but we’re diversified. We’re one of the fastest growing states in the country. We came back from the dead. And you know what? It works very, very well.And secondly, when you talk about me being on the board of Lehman Brothers, I wasn’t on the board of Lehman Brothers. I was a banker and I was proud of it. And I traveled the country and learned how people made jobs.We ought to have politicians who not only have government experience but know how the CEOs and the job creators work. My state is doing great across the board. And guess what, in 2011, I got a deal...QUICK: Governor...KASICH: ... an agreement with the...(CROSSTALK)KASICH: ... that he tried to take credit for four years later. It’s a joke.AdvertisementQUINTANILLA: Thank you, Governor.QUICK: Dr. Carson, let me get 30 seconds with Dr. Carson...(CROSSTALK)CARSON: Since I was attacked too.QUICK: Thank you.CARSON: Let me just say, if you’re talking about an $18 trillion economy, you’re talking about a 15 percent tax on your gross domestic product. You’re talking about $2.7 trillion. We have a budget closer to $3.5 trillion.But if you also apply that same 15 percent to several other things, including corporate taxes, and including the capital gains taxes, you make that amount up pretty quickly. So that is not by any stretch a pie in the sky.CRUZ: Becky, if you want a 10 percent flat tax where the numbers add up, I rolled out my tax plan today, you can find it on line at tedcruz.org. It is a simple flat tax where for individuals, a family of four pays nothing on the first $36,000.After that you pay 10 percent as a flat tax going up. The billionaire and the working man, no hedge fund manager pays less than his secretary.On top of that, there is a business flat tax of 16 percent. Now that applies universally to giant corporations that with lobbyists right now are not paying taxes, and as small business.And you wanted to know the numbers, the Tax Foundation, which has scored every one of our plans, shows that this plan will allow the economy to generate 4.9 million jobs, to raise wages over 12 percent, and to generate 14 percent growth.And it costs, with dynamic scoring, less than a trillion dollars. Those are the hard numbers. And every single income decile sees a double-digit increase in after-tax income.AdvertisementQUICK: Senator — Senator, thank you.CRUZ: Growth is the answer. And as Reagan demonstrated, if we cut taxes, we can bring back growth.QUICK: Gentlemen, I’m sorry, we need to...(CROSSTALK)QUINTANILLA: We’re going to try to move on.(CROSSTALK)FIORINA: Let me just say on taxes, how long have we been talking about tax reform in Washington, D.C.? We have been talking about it for decades. We now have a 73,000-page tax code.There have been more than 4,000 changes to the tax plan since 2001 alone. There are loads of great ideas, great conservative ideas from wonderful think tanks about how to reform the tax code.The problem is we never get it done. We have talked about tax reform in every single election for decades. It never happens. And the politicians always say it is so complicated, nobody but a politician can figure it out.The truth is this, the big problem, we need a leader in Washington who understands how to get something done, not to talk about it, not to propose it, to get it done.QUINTANILLA: You want to bring 70,000 pages to three?FIORINA: That’s right, three pages.QUINTANILLA: Is that using really small type?FIORINA: You know why three?QUINTANILLA: Is that using really small type?FIORINA: No. You know why three? Because only if it’s about three pages are you leveling the playing field between the big, the powerful, the wealthy and the well-connected who can hire the armies of lawyers and accountants and, yes, lobbyists to help them navigate their way through 73,000 pages.AdvertisementThree pages is about the maximum that a single business owner or a farmer or just a couple can understand without hiring somebody. Almost 60 percent of American people now need to hire an expert to understand their taxes.So yes, you’re going to hear a lot of talk about tax reform —QUINTANILLA: Mrs. Fiorina —FIORINA: — the issue is who is going to get it done.(CROSSTALK)QUINTANILLA: We’re going to —QUICK: We’re going to move on.QUINTANILLA: We will come around the bend, i promise. This one is for Senator Rubio. You’ve been a young man in a hurry ever since you won your first election in your 20s. You’ve had a big accomplishment in the Senate, an immigration bill providing a path to citizenship the conservatives in your party hate, and even you don’t support anymore. Now, you’re skipping more votes than any senator to run for president. Why not slow down, get a few more things done first or least finish what you start?RUBIO: That’s an interesting question. That’s exactly what the Republican establishment says too. Why don’t you wait in line? Wait for what? This country is running out of time. We can’t afford to have another four years like the last eight years.Watching this broadcast tonight are millions of people that are living paycheck to paycheck. They’re working as hard as they ever have, everything costs more, and they haven’t had a raise in decades.You have small businesses in America that are struggling. For the first time in 35 years, we have more businesses closing than starting. We have a world that’s out of control and has grown dangerous and a president that is weakening our military and making our foreign policy unstable and unreliable in the eyes of our allies. And our adversaries continue to grow stronger.We have a — they say there’s no bipartisanship in Washington? We have a $19 trillion bipartisan debt and it continues to grow as we borrow money from countries that do not like us to pay for government we cannot afford.The time to act is now. The time to turn the page is now. If we — if we don’t act now, we are going to be the first generation in American history that leaves our children worse off than ourselves.AdvertisementQUINTANILLA: So when the Sun-Sentinel says Rubio should resign, not rip us off, when they say Floridians sent you to Washington to do a job, when they say you act like you hate your job, do you?RUBIO: Let me say, I read that editorial today with a great amusement. It’s actually evidence of the bias that exists in the American media today.QUINTANILLA: Well, do you hate your job?RUBIO: Let me — let me answer your question on the Sun-Sentinel editorial today. Back in 2004, one of my predecessors to the Senate by the name of Bob Graham, a Democrat, ran for president missing over 30 percent of his votes. I don’t recall them calling for his resignation —QUINTANILLA: Is that the standard?RUBIO: Later that year, in 2004, John Kerry ran for president missing close to 60 to 70 percent of his votes. I don’t recall the Sun — in fact, the Sun-Sentinel endorsed him. In 2008, Barack Obama missed 60 or 70 percent of his votes, and the same newspaper endorsed him again. So this is another example of the double standard that exists in this country between the mainstream media and the conservative movement.(APPLAUSE)QUINTANILLA: Senator, thank you. John.BUSH: Could I — could I bring something up here, because I’m a constituent of the senator and I helped him and I expected that he would do constituent service, which means that he shows up to work. He got endorsed by the Sun-Sentinel because he was the most talented guy in the field. He’s a gifted politician.But Marco, when you signed up for this, this was a six-year term, and you should be showing up to work. I mean, literally, the Senate — what is it, like a French work week? You get, like, three days where you have to show up? You can campaign, or just resign and let someone else take the job. There are a lot of people living paycheck to paycheck in Florida as well, they’re looking for a senator that will fight for them each and every day.RUBIO: I get to respond, right?QUICK: Thirty seconds.RUBIO: Well, it’s interesting. Over the last few weeks, I’ve listened to Jeb as he walked around the country and said that you’re modeling your campaign after John McCain, that you’re going to launch a furious comeback the way he did, by fighting hard in New Hampshire and places like that, carrying your own bag at the airport. You know how many votes John McCain missed when he was carrying out that furious comeback that you’re now modeling after?BUSH: He wasn’t my senator.RUBIO: No Jeb, I don’t remember — well, let me tell you. I don’t remember you ever complaining about John McCain’s vote record. The only reason why you’re doing it now is because we’re running for the same position, and someone has convinced you that attacking me is going to help you.AdvertisementBUSH: Well, I’ve been —RUBIO: Here’s the bottom line.(APPLAUSE)I’m not — my campaign is going to be about the future of America, it’s not going to be about attacking anyone else on this stage. I will continue to have tremendous admiration and respect for Governor Bush. I’m not running against Governor Bush, I’m not running against anyone on this stage. I’m running for president because there is no way we can elect Hillary Clinton to continue the policies of Barack Obama.QUINTANILLA: Thank you, Senator.TRUMP: I think you’re —(APPLAUSE)(CROSSTALK)HARWOOD: Hold on. I think there’s a — I’ve got question for —(CROSSTALK)KASICH: John Harwood, there’s a bigger issue here.HARWOOD: Hold on, Governor. I’ve got a question for Governor Bush.(CROSSTALK)HARWOOD: No, we’re moving to Governor Bush. Governor, the fact that you’re at the fifth lectern tonight shows how far your stock has fallen in this race, despite the big investment your donors have made.HARWOOD: You noted recently, after slashing your payroll, that you had better things to do than sit around and be demonized by other people. I wanted to ask you —BUSH: No, no. What I said was I don’t believe that I would be president of the United States and have the same dysfunction that exists in Washington, D.C. now.HARWOOD: OK.BUSH: Don’t vote for me if you want to keep the gridlock in Washington, D.C.HARWOOD: Got it.BUSH: But if you want someone who has a proven, effective leadership, that was a governor of a state, that transformed the culture there, elect me so I can fight for the American people and change the culture in Washington, D.C.HARWOOD: But it’s a — OK. It’s a — it’s a question about why you’re having difficulty. I want to ask you in this context.Ben Bernanke, who was appointed Fed chairman by your brother, recently wrote a book in which he said he no longer considers himself a Republican because the Republican Party has given in to know- nothingism. Is that why you’re having a difficult time in this race?BUSH: (inaudible), the great majority of Republicans and Americans believe in a hopeful future. They don’t believe in building walls and a pessimistic view of the future.They’re concerned that Washington is so dysfunctional it is holding them back. There are lids on people’s aspirations. Think about it: six and a half million people working part-time. Workforce participation rates lower than they were in 1977.Six million more people living in poverty than the day that Barack Obama got elected president, and the left just wants more of the same. We have to offer a compelling alternative that is based on hope and optimism and grounded in serious policy, which I’ve laid out.And you can go get it at jeb2016.com.HARWOOD: Thank you, Governor.(CROSSTALK)HARWOOD: We’re gonna get down the line. Becky’s got a question.QUICK: We’ll get to everyone.Ms. Fiorina, I — I’d like to ask you a question. You are running for president of the United States because of your record running Hewlett-Packard. But the stock market is usually a fair indicator of the performance of a CEO, and the market was not kind to you.Someone who invested a dollar in your company the day you took office had lost half of the dollar by the day you left. Obviously, you’ve talked in the past about what a difficult time it was for technology companies, but anybody who was following the market knows that your stock was a much worse performer, if you looked at your competitors, if you looked at the overall market.I just wonder, in terms of all of that — you know, we look back, your board fired you. I just wondered why you think we should hire you now.FIORINA: You know, the NASDAQ dropped 80 percent — 80 percent — and it took 15 years for the NASDAQ to recover. I was recruited to H.P. to save a company.It was a company that had grown into a bloated, inept bureaucracy that cost too much and delivered too little to customers and shareholders. It had missed, before I had arrived, expectations for nine quarters in a row.As an outsider, I tackled H.P.’s entrenched problems head-on. I cut the bureaucracy down to size, re-introduced accountability, focused on service, on innovation, on leading in every market, in every product segment.And yes, it was a very difficult time. However, we saved 80,000 jobs and we went on to grow to 160,000 jobs, and scores of technology companies literally went out of business — like Gateway — taking all their jobs with them.The truth is I had to make some tough calls in some tough times. I think, actually, people are looking for that in Washington now. And yes, I was fired over a disagreement in the boardroom. There are politics in the boardroom as well.And yet the man who led my firing, Tom Perkins, an icon of Silicon Valley, has come out publicly and said, “you know what? We were wrong. She was right. She was a great CEO. She’d be a great president of the United States because the leadership she brought to H.P. is exactly the leadership we need in Washington, D.C.QUICK: Mrs. Fiorina, it’s interesting that you bring up Mr. Perkins, because...(APPLAUSE) ...he said a lot of very questionable things. Last year, in an interview, he said that he thinks wealthy people should get more votes than poor people.I think his quote was that, “if you pay zero dollars in taxes, you should get zero votes. If you pay a million dollars, you should get a million votes.” Is this the type of person you want defending you?FIORINA: Well, this is one of the reasons why Tom Perkins and I had disagreements in the boardroom, Becky.(LAUGHTER)Nevertheless, one of the things that I think people don’t always understand is how accountable a CEO actually is.So you know, I had to report results every 90 days in excruciating detail. I had to answer every single question about every single result and every single projection in public until there were no more questions.And if I misrepresented those results or those projections in any way, I was held criminally liable. Imagine — imagine — if a politician were held to that standard of account.I will run on my record all day long.(APPLAUSE)And I believe people need a leader who is prepared to make tough calls in tough times and stand up...QUICK: Mrs. Fiorina.FIORINA: ...and be held accountable.QUICK: Thank you, we’re out of time. Thank you, Mrs. Fiorina.Carl.QUINTANILLA: Senator Cruz. Congressional Republicans, Democrats and the White House are about to strike a compromise that would raise the debt limit, prevent a government shutdown and calm financial markets that fear of — another Washington-created crisis is on the way.Does your opposition to it show that you’re not the kind of problem-solver American voters want?CRUZ: You know, let me say something at the outset. The questions that have been asked so far in this debate illustrate why the American people don’t trust the media.(APPLAUSE) This is not a cage match. And, you look at the questions — “Donald Trump, are you a comic-book villain?” “Ben Carson, can you do math?” “John Kasich, will you insult two people over here?” “Marco Rubio, why don’t you resign?” “Jeb Bush, why have your numbers fallen?”How about talking about the substantive issues the people care about?(APPLAUSE)QUINTANILLA: (inaudible) do we get credit (inaudible)?CRUZ: And Carl — Carl, I’m not finished yet.CRUZ: The contrast with the Democratic debate, where every fawning question from the media was, “Which of you is more handsome and why?”(LAUGHTER)And let me be clear.(CROSSTALK)QUINTANILLA: So, this is a question about (inaudible), which you have 30 seconds left to answer, should you choose to do so.CRUZ: Let me be clear. The men and women on this stage have more ideas, more experience, more common sense than every participant in the Democratic debate. That debate reflected a debate between the Bolsheviks and the Mensheviks.(LAUGHTER)And nobody watching at home believed that any of the moderators had any intention of voting in a Republican primary. The questions that are being asked shouldn’t be trying to get people to tear into each other. It should be what are your substantive positions...(CROSSTALK)QUINTANILLA: OK. (inaudible) I asked you about the debt limit and I got no answer.(CROSSTALK)CRUZ: You want me to answer that question? I’m happy to answer the question...(CROSSTALK)CRUZ: Let me tell you how that question...(CROSSTALK)CRUZ: Let me tell you how that question...(CROSSTALK)HARWOOD: Senator Paul, I’ve got a question for you on the same subject.CRUZ: ... so you don’t actually want to hear the answer, John?HARWOOD: Senator Paul?CRUZ: You don’t want to hear the answer. You just want to...(CROSSTALK)HARWOOD: You used your time on something else.Senator Paul?CRUZ: You’re not interested in an answer.(CROSSTALK)HARWOOD: Senator Paul, the budget deal crafted by Speaker Boehner and passed by the House today makes cuts in entitlement programs, Medicare and Social Security disability, which are the very programs conservatives say need cutting to shrink government and solve our country’s long-term budget deficit. Do you oppose that budget deal because it doesn’t cut those programs enough?PAUL: No, I oppose it because you’re taking money from the entitlement and then spending it immediately on other items. That’s what they’re doing. They’re taking money from Social Security and they’re going to spend it on the military and they’re going to spend it on domestic spending.Here’s the thing. When you look at raising the debt limit, it should be leverage to try to reform government. In 2011, the sequester was passed as a reform to slow down the rate of government. Instead, the Washington establishment raised both. We raised the military spending, took from entitlements, and raised domestic spending and the deficit will explode under this. This is the unholy alliance that people need to know about between right and left. Right and left are spending us into oblivion. We should use the debt ceiling, as precisely to Don, to force upon them budgetary reforms.HARWOOD: Senator, if what you just said is true, why did Speaker Boehner craft this deal and why did Paul Ryan, who has a strong reputation for fiscal discipline, vote for it?PAUL: Well, that’s a real question. Is there going to be any change in the House with new leadership? I frankly don’t think there will be much change because I think what’s going to happen is you’re going to get more of the same. People in Washington think they were sent there to be adults and govern and do all this. Well, you know what I’m worried about? Not keeping the government open. I’m worried about bankrupting the American people.We’re borrowing a million dollars a minute. That is important. And that’s what we have to contrast. Keeping the government open and continuing to borrow a million dollars a minute.(CROSSTALK)HARWOOD: Thank you, Senator (inaudible).QUICK: Governor Christie, I’d like to (inaudible) a question next. Actually, I have a question for you (inaudible).In your tell it like it is campaign, you’ve said a lot of tough things. You’ve said that we need to raise the retirement age for Social Security. You think that we need to cut benefits for people who make over $80,000 and eliminate them entirely for seniors who are making over $200,000.Governor Huckabee, who is here on the stage, has said that you and others who think this way are trying to rob seniors of the benefits that they’ve earned. It raises the question: When it is acceptable to break a social compact?RITCHIE: Well, I wish you would have asked that question years ago when they broke it. I mean, let me be honest with the people who are watching at home. The government has lied to you and they have stolen from you. They told you that your Social Security money is in a trust fund. All that’s in that trust fund is a pile of IOUs for money they spent on something else a long time ago.And they’ve stolen from you because now they know they cannot pay these benefits and Social Security is going to be insolvent in seven to eight years. We’re sitting up here talking about all these other things; 71 percent of federal spending today is on entitlements, and debt service. And, that’s with zero percent interest rates.Now, I’m the only person that’s put out a detailed plan on how to deal with entitlements. And we’ll save a trillion dollars over the next 10 years. And, here’s the difference between me and Hillary Clinton. What Hillary Clinton’s going to say, and has said before is, she wants to raise Social Security taxes.Now, let me ask you a question everybody, and, this is for the guy, you know, who owns a landscaping business out there. If somebody’s already stolen money from you, are you going to give them more? Or, are you going to deal with the problem by saying, I’m going to give people who’ve done well in this country less benefit on the backend. We need to get realistic about this. We’re not — the American people — forget about anything else, they’ve already been lied to and stolen from. And...QUICK: ...Governor...CHRISTIE: ...I’m going to go to Washington to stop it...QUICK: ...Thank you.QUINTANILLA: We promised we would get to everyone this block. Governor Huckabee, I’m going to give you 60 seconds on this.HUCKABEE: Well, I would really appreciate that. First of all, yes, we’ve stolen. Yes, we’ve lied to the American people about Social Security, and Medicare.But, you know what we’re not telling them? It’s their money. This isn’t the governments money. This is not entitlement, it’s not welfare. This is money that people have confiscated out of their paychecks. Everytime they got a paycheck, the government reached in and took something out of it before they ever saw it. Now, we’re going to blame the people.Today congress decided to take another $150 billion dollars away from Social Security so they can borrow more money. That makes no sense to everybody. And, they’re always going to say, “Well, we’re going to fix this one day.”No their not. It’s like a 400 pound man saying, “I’m going to go on a diet, but I’m eating a sack of Krispy Kremes before I do.”And, people are sick of believing that the government is never going to really address this. But, let me tell you who not to blame. Let’s quit blaming the people on Social Security. Let’s quit making it a problem for them. It’s like them getting mugged, and then us saying, well, we’re going to mug you some more. You ought to just be able to get over it, get used to it...QUINTANILLA: ...Governor...HUCKABEE: ...No, sir...QUINTANILLA: ...Thank you, Governor...HUCKABEE: ...we need to honor our promises...(CROSSTALK)QUINTANILLA: ...Senator Cruz...HUCKABEE: ...before I go. This is the only time I’ve had a chance, let me finish.QUINTANILLA: OK, alright.HUCKABEE: ...This is a matter not of math, this is a matter of morality. If this country that does not keep its promise to seniors then what promise can this country hope to be trusted to keep? And, the fact is, none of them.(CROSSTALK)MALE: And, by the way, Carl...(APPLAUSE)HUCKABEE: And, the only way — no...(CROSSTALK)CHRISTIE: ...The only way we’re going to be morale, the only way we’re going to keep our promise to seniors is start by following the first rule we should all follow, which is to look at them, treat them like adults, and tell them the truth.It isn’t there anymore, Mike. They stole it. It got stolen from them. It’s not theirs anymore. The government stole it, and spent it a long time ago... HUCKABEE: ...Chris...CHRISTIE: So, let’s stop fooling around about this, let’s tell people the truth. For once, let’s do that, and stop trying to give them some kind of fantasy that’s never going to come true.QUINTANILLA: Senator Cruz...HUCKABEE: ...Chris...QUINTANILLA: ...Before we go to break, we’re clearly not having that beer you mentioned, but I’ll give you 30 more seconds...CRUZ: ...Then I’ll buy you a tequila...QUINTANILLA: OK.CRUZ: ...Or, even some famous Colorado brownies.QUINTANILLA: I’ll give you 30 seconds to respond...(CHEERING)QUINTANILLA: (INAUDIBLE)HUCKABEE: Since he brought me up, do I not get to respond?QUINTANILLA: Respond on the debt limit, or an answer to the governor, which ever you choose.CRUZ: Well, sure. This deal in Washington is an example of why Washington’s broken. Republican leadership joined with every single Democrat, add $80 trillion to our debt to do nothing to fix the problems.And, let me now on Social Security because we were getting into a good substantive exchange, and I want to say I think both Chris, and Mike are right. Governor Huckabee’s exactly right, we need to honor the promises made to our seniors, but for younger workers — look. I’m 44 years old.It is hard to find someone in my generation that thinks Social Security will be there for us. We can save and preserve and strengthen Social Security by making no changes for seniors, but for younger workers gradually increasing the retirement age, changing the rate of growth so that it matches inflation, and critically allowing younger workers to keep a portion of our tax payments in a personal account that we own, we control them, we can pass on to our kids.QUINTANILLA: 30 seconds, Governor Huckabee.HUCKABEE: John, listen, let’s keep in mind that for one-third of the 60 million Americans on Social Security it represents 90 percent of their income. And, when I hear people talking about means testing, let’s just remember what that means. If we means test Social Security, it means that the government decides whether or not I deserve it. If a person lives in a seven room house, does the government get to say you don’t need seven rooms, we’re going to take two of them away?HUCKABEE: Folks, the government has no business stealing even more from the people who have paid this in. I just want to remind you, people paid their money. They expect to have it. And, if this government doesn’t pay it, than tell me what’s different between the government and Bernie Madolf, who sits in prison today for doing less than what the government has done to the people on social security and Medicare in this country.(APPLAUSE)QUINTANILLA: Governor, thank you. We will take a break. The Republican Presidential debate, live from Boulder, Colorado, coming back after a break on CNBC.(APPLAUSE)(COMMERCIAL BREAK)QUICK: Welcome back to the presidential debate for the Republicans. We are live in Boulder, Colorado, right here on CNBC.Folks, we’ll get right back into this.Mr. Trump, let’s talk a little bit about bankruptcies. Your Atlantic City casinos filed for bankruptcy four times. In fact, Fitch, the ratings agency, even said that they were serial filers for all of this. You said that you did great with Atlantic City, and you did. But some of the individuals — the bondholders, some of the contractors who worked for you, didn’t fare so well.Bankruptcy is a broken promise. Why should the voters believe the promises that you’re telling them right now?TRUMP: Well, first of all, like many other very big businessmen, I could name them here, but I’m not going to do that for a lot of obvious reasons, but the biggest, and almost all of them, they’ve all used the chapter laws, the bankruptcy laws to their own benefit.Before this, I was a very successful person as a developer and as a businessman. Atlantic City has gone bad. I mean, Chris will know about that. I’m not blaming Chris, by the way, but he will know about that. Caesar’s — excuse me — Caesar’s, the Rolls-Royce, as you know, is in bankruptcy. Almost every hotel in Atlantic City has either been in bankruptcy or will be in bankruptcy — the biggest.But also the biggest people (ph) — now I’ve used that to my advantage as a business man, for my family, for myself. I never filed for bankruptcy. But many, many people did. What happened with Atlantic City is very, very disgraceful.Now hundreds of companies I’ve opened. I’ve used it three times, maybe four times. Came out great. But I guess I’m supposed to come out great. That is what I could do for the country. We owe $19 trillion, boy am I good at solving debt problems. Nobody can solve it like me.But I will tell you this, Atlantic City, you’re using that, hundreds of companies that I have opened have thrived. I built a net worth of way over $10 billion, and I have done it four times out of hundreds. And I’m glad I did it.I used the laws of the country to my benefit, I’m sorry.QUICK: Mr. Trump, thank you.TRUMP: Thank you.CRAMER: Dr. Carson, in recent weeks, a number of pharmaceutical companies has been accused of profiteering, for dramatically raising the prices of life-saving drugs. You have spent a lifetime in medicine.Have these companies gone too far? Should the government be involved in controlling some of these price increases?CARSON: Well, there is no question that some people go overboard when it comes to trying to make profits, and they don’t take into consideration the American people. What we have to start thinking about, as leaders, particularly in government, is what can we do for the average American? And you think about the reasons that we’re having such difficulty right now with our job market.Well, the average small manufacturer, whatever they’re manufacturing, drugs or anything, if they have less than 50 employees, the average cost in terms of regulations is $34,000 per employee. Makes it a whole lot easier for them to want to go somewhere else.So what we’re going to have to start doing instead of, you know, picking on this group or this group, is we’re going to have to have a major reduction in the regulatory influence that is going on.The government is not supposed to be in every part of our lives, and that is what is causing the problem.CRAMER: Thank you, Dr. Carson.Governor Christie, there has been a lot of political rhetoric that some bank executives should have gone to jail for the 2008 financial crisis.But General Motors paid more than $1 billion in fines and settlements for its ignition switch defect. One hundred and twenty- four people died as a result of these faulty switches. No one went to jail.As a former prosecutor, do you believe the people responsible for the switch and the cover-up belong behind bars?CHRISTIE: You bet they do. And if I were the prosecutor, that is exactly where they would be. The fact is that this Justice Department under this president has been a political Justice Department.It has been a Justice Department that decided that they want to pick who the winners and losers are. They like General Motors, so they give them a pass. They don’t like somebody else like David Petraeus, they prosecute them and send a decorated general on to disgrace. It’s a political Justice Department.And, Jim, you know full well that in the seven years I was U.S. attorney we went after pharmaceutical companies. We went after companies that were ripping off shareholders. We went after companies that were doing things that were against the law.And to expand on Mr. Carson’s — or Dr. Carson’s question, let’s face it, we have laws already. We don’t need newer (ph) laws. We don’t need Hillary Clinton’s price controls for — again, does anybody out there think that giving Washington, D.C., the opportunity to run the pharmaceutical industry is a good idea, given how well they have done running the government?So what we do, though, is, if there is somebody who is price- gouging, we have laws for prosecutors to take that on. Let’s let a Justice Department — and I will make an attorney general who will enforce the law and make justice more than just a word. It will be a way of life.CRAMER: Thank you, Governor Christie.HARWOOD: Jim, thanks.Governor Bush, in a debate like this four years ago, every Republican running for president pledged to oppose a budget deal containing any tax increase even if it had spending cuts ten times as large.A few months later, you told Congress, put me in, coach, you said you would take that deal. Still feel that way?BUSH: Well, the deal was done. Barack Obama got his massive tax increase, and there was no spending cuts. You just see the recent deal announced today or yesterday, more spending, more tax increasing, more regulation. And now we have to accept 2 percent, the new normal for economic growth.And the net result is the middle class has $2,300 less in their pockets than the day that Barack Obama got elected president. And now they see Hillary Clinton proposing a third term of economic policy for our country.We need to reverse that. And my record was one of cutting taxes each and every year. You don’t have to guess about it, because I actually have a record. $19 billion of tax cuts, 1.3 million jobs created. We were one of two states to go to AAA bond rating, and our government spending was far less than the spending in people’s income.HARWOOD: But to — to the point that you made to Congress, if you were president and you were offered a bipartisan deal that had one dollar...BUSH: You find me...HARWOOD: ...one dollar of tax increases per ten dollars of spending cuts, would you take it?BUSH: You find me a Democrat — you find me a Democrat that will cut spending ten dollars? Heck, find me a Republican in Congress that would cut spending ten dollars. I’ll talk to them.HARWOOD: So you don’t want the coach to put you in any more?BUSH: Look, the — the deal is already done. The biggest tax increase happened under the watch of Barack Obama, and spending’s gone up. You find a Democrat that’s for cutting taxes — cutting spending ten dollars, I’ll give them a warm kiss.(LAUGHTER)HARWOOD: Thank you, governor.Carl?QUINTANILLA: Mrs. Fiorina, in 2010, while running for Senate in Tech Ridge (ph), California, you called an Internet sales tax a bad idea. Traditional brick and mortar stores obviously disagree. Now that the Internet shopping playing field has matured, what would be a fair plan to even that playing field?FIORINA: You know, I want to go back for a moment to what we were just talking about. Crony capitalism is alive and well, and has been so in Washington, D.C. for decades.What’s crony capitalism? Crony capitalism is what happens when government gets so big and so powerful that only the big and the powerful can handle it.So why are the pharmaceutical companies consolidating? Why are there five even bigger Wall Street banks now, instead of the ten we used to have on Wall Street? Because when government gets big and powerful, the big feel like they need to get even bigger to deal with all that power, and meanwhile, the small and the powerless — in this case, 1,590 community banks — go out of business.You see, folks, this is how socialism starts. Government causes a problem, and then government steps in to solve the problem. This is why, fundamentally, we have to take our government back.The student loan problem has been created by government. Government trying to level the playing field between Internet and brick-and-mortar creates a problem. The FCC jumping in now and saying, “we’re going to put 400 pages of regulation over the Internet,” is going to create massive problems.But guess who pushed for that regulation? The big Internet companies. This is what’s going on. Big and powerful use big and powerful government to their advantage.It’s why you see Walgreens buying Rite Aid. It’s why you see the pharmaceuticals getting together. It’s you see the health insurance companies getting together. It’s why you see the banks consolidating.And meanwhile, small businesses are getting crushed. Community- based businesses and farms are getting crushed. Community banks are going out of business. Big government favors the big, the powerful, the wealthy and the well-connected, and crushes the small and the powerless.QUINTANILLA: Mrs. Fiorina.FIORINA: It is why we have to simplify. It is why we have to reduce the size and power of government.QUINTANILLA: OK.FIORINA: It’s the only way to level the playing field between big and powerful and small and powerless.QUINTANILLA: Thank you very much.(APPLAUSE) QUICK: Senator Rubio, you yourself have said that you’ve had issues. You have a lack of bookkeeping skills. You accidentally inter-mingled campaign money with your personal money. You faced (ph) foreclosure on a second home that you bought. And just last year, you liquidated a $68,000 retirement fund. That’s something that cost you thousands of dollars in taxes and penalties.In terms of all of that, it raises the question whether you have the maturity and wisdom to lead this $17 trillion economy. What do you say?RUBIO: Well, you just — you just listed a litany of discredited attacks from Democrats and my political opponents, and I’m not gonna waste 60 seconds detailing them all. But I’m going to tell you the truth.Here’s the truth. I didn’t inherit any money. My dad was a bartender, my mother was a maid. They worked hard to provide us the chance at a better life.They didn’t save enough money for us to go to school. I had to work my way through school. I had to borrow money to go to school. I tried (ph), early in my marriage, explaining to my wife why someone named Sallie Mae was taking $1,000 out of our bank account every month.(LAUGHTER)I know what it’s like to owe that money, and we’ve worked hard. We’ve worked hard our whole life to provide a better family — a better life for our family.We own a home four blocks away from the place that I grew up in. My four children have been able to receive a good Christian education, and I’ve been able to save for them to go to college so they never have to have the loans that I did.But I’m not worried about my finances, I’m worried about the finances of everyday Americans who today are struggling in an economy that is not producing good paying jobs while everything else costs more. And that’s what this economy needs to — that’s what this debate needs to be about.This debate needs to be about the men and women across this country that are struggling on a daily basis to provide for their families the better future that we’ve always said this country is all about.QUICK: Senator, I understand all of that. I had a lot of student loans when I got out, too. But you’ve had a windfall that a lot of Americans haven’t. You made over a million dollars on a book deal, and some of these problems came after that.RUBIO: And I used it to pay off my loans. And it’s available on paperback, if you’re interested in buying my book.(APPLAUSE)QUICK: But you — but you liquidated that retirement account after the fact, and that cost you about $24,000 out of that in taxes and feed. That — that was after you’d already come into that windfall. That’s why I raised the question.RUBIO: Yeah, again, as I said, we’re raising a family in the 21st century and it’s one of the reasons why my tax plan is a pro- family tax plan.It increases the per child tax credit, because I didn’t read about this in a book. I know for a fact how difficult it is to raise children, how expensive it’s become for working families. And I make a lot more than the average American. Imagine how hard it is for these people out there that are making 40, 50, $60,000 a year, and they’re trying to provide for their families at a time when this economy is not growing.We can’t afford another four years of that. Which is what we’re gonna get if we elect a big government liberal like Hillary Clinton to the White House.Thank you, senator.HARWOOD: Governor John Kasich, you’ve called for abolishing the Export Import Bank, which provides subsidies to help American companies compete with overseas competitors. You call that corporate welfare.One of the largest newspapers in your state wrote an editorial, said they found that strange, writing, that if that’s corporate welfare, what does Kasich call the millions of dollars in financial incentives doled out to attract or retain jobs by his development effort — jobs Ohio.If subsidies are good enough for Ohio companies, why aren’t they good enough for companies trying to compete overseas?KASICH: Well, first of all, when we talk about the Import Export Bank, it’s time to clean up corporate welfare. If we’re gonna reform welfare for poor people, we ought to reform it for rich people, as well. Secondly, in our state, we went from a loss of 350,000 jobs to, now, a gain of 347,000 jobs to the positive. Our wages are growing faster than the national average, and I’ve cut taxes more than any sitting governor in this state — $5 billion, including no taxes on small business and killing the death tax.I want to go back to what we were talking about earlier, this budget deal in Washington.This is the same old stuff since I left.You spend the money today and then you hope you’re going to save money tomorrow.I don’t know if people understand, but I spent a lifetime with my colleagues getting us to a federal balanced budget. We actually did it. And I have a road map and a plan right now to get us to balance.Reforming entitlements, cutting taxes. You see, because if you really want to get to a balanced budget, you need to reduce your expenses and you need to grow your economy. So what I will tell you about our incentives — our incentives are tight, and at the end of the day we make sure that we gain more from the creation of jobs than what we lose.And you know what? Ohio, one of the best growing places in the country — I not only did it in Washington, I did it in Ohio, and I’ll go back to Washington, and there will be no more silly deals...HARWOOD: Thank you, Governor.KASICH: ... If I become President because we’ll have a Constitutional Amendment to require a federally balanced budget so they will do their job.HARWOOD: Thank you, Governor. Thank you.QUICK: Yes, thank you John.Senator Cruz, working women in this country still earn just 77 percent of what men earn. And I know that you’ve said you’ve been very sympathetic to our cause. But you’ve also you said that the Democrats’ moves to try and change this are the political show votes.I just wonder what you would do as President to try and help in this cause?CRUZ: Well, we’ve gotta turn the economy around for people who are struggling.The Democrats’ answer to everything is more government control over wages, and more empowering trial lawyers to file lawsuits.You know, you look at women working. I’ll tell you, in my family there are a lot of single moms in my family. My sister was a single mom, both of my aunts who were a single moms. My mom who’s here today, was a single mom when my father left us when I was 3 years old.Now, thank God, my father was invited to a Bible study and became born again and he came back to my mom and me and we were raised together. But I — the struggle of single moms is extraordinary. And you know, when you see Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders and all the Democrats talking about wanting to address the plight of working women, not a one of them mentioned the fact that under Barack Obama, 3.7 million women have entered poverty.Not a one of them mentioned the fact that under Barack Obama and the big government economy, the median wage for women has dropped $733. The the truth of the matter is, big government benefits the wealthy, it benefits the lobbyists, it benefits the giant corporations. And the people who are getting hammered are small businesses, it’s single moms, it’s Hispanics. That is who I’m fighting for. The people that Washington leaves behind.(CROSSTALK)FIORINA: Becky, it is the height of hypocrisy for Mrs. Clinton to talk about being the first woman President, when every single policy she espouses, and every single policy of President Obama has been demonstrably bad for women.FIORINA: 92 percent — 92 percent of the jobs lost during Barack Obama’s first term belonged to women. Senator Cruz is precisely right. Three million women have fallen into poverty under this administration. The number of women —QUICK: Mrs. Fiorina —FIORINA: — living in extreme poverty is the highest level on record. I am a conservative because I know our values, our principles and our policies —QUICK: Mrs. Fiorina, we will come back to you.FIORINA: — work better to lift everyone up, men and women.QUICK: Thank you, Mrs. Fiorina. Carl?(APPLAUSE)QUINTANILLA: Dr. Carson, we know you as a physician, but we wanted to ask you about your involvement on some corporate boards, including Costco’s. Last year, a marketing study called the warehouse retailer the number one gay-friendly brand in America, partly because of its domestic partner benefits.Why would you serve on a company whose policies seem to run counter to your views on homosexuality?CARSON: Well, obviously, you don’t understand my views on homosexuality. I believe that our Constitution protects everybody, regardless of their sexual orientation or any other aspect. I also believe that marriage is between one man and one woman. And there is no reason that you can’t be perfectly fair to the gay community.They shouldn’t automatically assume that because you believe that marriage is between one man and one woman that you are a homophobe. And this is one of the myths that the left perpetrates on our society, and this is how they frighten people and get people to shut up. You know, that’s what the PC culture is all about, and it’s destroying this nation.The fact of the matter is we the American people are not each other’s enemies, it’s those people who are trying to divide us who are the enemies. And we need to make that very clear to everybody.(APPLAUSE) QUINTANILLA: One more question. This is a company called Mannatech, a maker of nutritional supplements, with which you had a 10-year relationship. They offered claims that they could cure autism, cancer, they paid $7 million to settle a deceptive marketing lawsuit in Texas, and yet you’re involvement continued. Why?CARSON: Well, that’s easy to answer. I didn’t have an involvement with them. That is total propaganda, and this is what happens in our society. Total propaganda.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.I did a couple of speeches for them, I do speeches for other people. They were paid speeches. It is absolutely absurd to say that I had any kind of a relationship with them.Do I take the product? Yes. I think it’s a good product.QUINTANILLA: To be fair, you were on the homepage of their website with the logo over your shoulder —CARSON: If somebody put me on their homepage, they did it without my permission.QUINTANILLA: Does that not speak to your vetting process or judgment in any way.CARSON: No, it speaks to the fact that I don’t know those —(AUDIENCE BOOS)See? They know.(APPLAUSE)QUINTANILLA: Apparently. We will take a break. We’ll be back in Boulder in just a minute.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)HARWOOD: Welcome back to the Republican presidential debate on CNBC, live from Boulder, Colorado at the University of Colorado.Senator Huckabee, I mean — excuse me — Senator Rubio, Wired magazine recently carried the heading, “Marco Rubio wants to be the tech industry’s savior.” It noted your support for dramatically increasing immigration visas called H1B, which are designed for workers with the special skills that Silicon Valley wants.But your Senate colleague, Jeff Sessions of Alabama, says in reality, the tech industry uses this program to undercut hiring and wages for highly qualified Americans. Why is he wrong?RUBIO: Well, first of all, if a company gets caught doing that, they should never be able to use the program again. If you get caught abusing this program, you should never be able to use it again.The second thing I said is we need to add reforms, not just increase the numbers, but add reforms. For example, before you hire anyone from abroad, you should have to advertise that job for 180 days. You also have to prove that you’re going to pay these people more than you would pay someone else, so that you’re not undercutting it by bringing in cheap labor.But here’s the best solution of all. We need to get back to training people in this country to do the jobs of the 21st century. Why, for the life of me, I do not understand why did we stop doing vocational education in America, people that can work with their hands; people you can train to do this work while they’re still in high school so they can graduate ready to go work. But the best way to close this gap is to modernize higher education so Americans have the skills for those jobs. But in the interim, in the absence of that, what’s happening is some of these tech companies are taking those — those centers (ph) to Canada because they can get people to go over there instead of here.But the ideal scenario is to train Americans to do the work so we don’t have to rely on people from abroad.HARWOOD: It sounds like you think Senator Sessions is wrong to believe there is enough abuse in that program that we shouldn’t...(CROSSTALK)RUBIO: Well, I believe that there are abuses, those companies should be permanently barred from ever using the program again and we should put strict standards in place to ensure that they’re not being abused, like the prevailing wage requirement and like the advertising requirement.HARWOOD: Thank you, Senator.Becky?QUICK: Mr. Trump, let’s stay on this issue of immigration. You have been very critical of Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook who has wanted to increase the number of these H1Bs.TRUMP: I was not at all critical of him. I was not at all. In fact, frankly, he’s complaining about the fact that we’re losing some of the most talented people. They go to Harvard. They go to Yale. They go to Princeton. They come from another country and they’re immediately sent out.I am all in favor of keeping these talented people here so they can go to work in Silicon Valley.QUICK: So you’re in favor of...(CROSSTALK)TRUMP: So I have nothing at all critical of him.‘ QUICK: Where did I read this and come up with this that you were...(CROSSTALK)TRUMP: Probably, I don’t know — you people write the stuff. I don’t know where you...(LAUGHTER)(APPLAUSE)TRUMP: And if I could say just one thing. I am the only person in either campaign that’s self-funding. I’m putting up 100 percent of my own money. And right now, I will be putting up a tremendous — so far, I’ve put up less than anybody and I have the best results. Wouldn’t that be nice if the country could do that?But I will be putting — I will be putting up, you know, tremendous amounts of money. SuperPacs are a disaster. They’re a scam. They cause dishonesty. And you better get rid of them because they are causing a lot of bad decisions to be made by some very good people. And I’m not blaming these folks — well, I guess I could.(LAUGHTER)Very good people are making very bad decisions right now. And if anything comes out of this whole thing with some of these nasty and ridiculous questions, I will tell you, you better get rid of the SuperPacs because they causing a big problem with this country, not only in dishonesty and what’s going on, but also in a lot of bad decisions that have been made for the benefit of lobbyists and special interests.QUICK: You know, Mr. — you know, Mr. Trump, if I may (inaudible). You’ve been — you have been — you had talked a little bit about Marco Rubio. I think you called him Mark Zuckerberg’s personal senator because he was in favor of the H1B.TRUMP: I never said that. I never said that.QUICK: So this was an erroneous article the whole way around?TRUMP: You’ve got another gentleman in Florida, who happens to be a very nice guy, but not...QUICK: My apologies. I’m sorry.(CROSSTALK)TRUMP: ... he’s really doing some bad...(CROSSTALK)RUBIO: Since I’ve been mentioned, can I respond?(CROSSTALK)QUICK: Yes, you can.RUBIO: OK. I know the Democrats have the ultimate SuperPac. It’s called the mainstream media who every single day...(APPLAUSE)... and I’ll tell you why. Last week, Hillary Clinton went before a committee. She admitted she had sent e-mails to her family saying, “Hey, this attack at Benghazi was caused by Al Qaida-like elements.” She spent over a week telling the families of those victims and the American people that it was because of a video. And yet the mainstream media is going around saying it was the greatest week in Hillary Clinton’s campaign.It was the week she got exposed as a liar. It was the week that she got exposed as a liar...(APPLAUSE)But she has her super PAC helping her out, the American mainstream media.QUICK: Senator Rubio, thank you very much.I would like to introduce my colleague, Rick Santelli, he has some comments as well, sir.SANTELLI: Senator Cruz, let’s focus on our central bank, the Federal Reserve. You’ve been a fierce critic of the Fed, arguing for more transparency. Where do you want to take that?Do you want to get Congress involved in monetary policy, or is it time to slap the Fed back and downsize them completely? What are your thoughts? What do you believe?CRUZ: Well, Rick, it’s a very important question. I have got deep concerns about the Fed. The first thing I think we need to do is audit the Fed. And I am an original co-sponsor of Rand Paul’s audit the Fed legislation.The second thing we need to do is I think we need to bring together a bipartisan commission to look at getting back to rules- based monetary policy, end this star chamber that has been engaging in this incredible experiment of quantitative easing, QE1, QE2, QE3, QE- infinity.And the people who are being impacted, you know, a question that was asked earlier, Becky asked, was about working women. You know, it’s interesting, you look at on Wall Street, the Fed is doing great. It’s driving up stock prices. Wall Street is doing great.You know, today, the top 1 percent earn a higher share of our income than any year since 1928. But if you look at working men and women. If you look at a single mom buying groceries, she sees hamburger prices have gone up nearly 40 percent.She sees her cost of electricity going up. She sees her health insurance going up. And loose money is one of the major problems. We need sound money. And I think the Fed should get out of the business of trying to juice our economy and simply be focused on sound money and monetary stability, ideally tied to gold.SANTELLI: Senator Paul, the same question to you.PAUL: Well, thank you very much. I would like to thank Ted for co-sponsoring my bill, audit the Fed. And I think it’s precisely because of the arrogance of someone like Ben Bernanke, who now calls us all know-nothings, that is precisely why we need audit the Fed.I think it is really very much a huge problem that an organization as powerful as the Fed comes in, lobbies against them being audited on the Hill. I would prevent them lobbying Congress. I don’t think the Fed should be involved with lobbying us.I think we should examine how the Fed has really been part of the problem. You want to study income inequality, let’s bring the Fed forward and talk about Fed policy and how it causes income inequality.Let’s also bring the Fed forward and have them explain how they caused the housing boom and the crisis, and what they’ve done to make us better or worse. I think the Fed has been a great problem in our society.What you need to do is free up interest rates. Interest rates are the price of money, and we shouldn’t have price controls on the price of money.SANTELLI: Thank you, Senator.(APPLAUSE)Dr. Carson, you told The Des Moines Register that you don’t like government subsidies, it interferes with the free market. But you’ve also said that you’re in favor of taking oil subsidies and putting them towards ethanol processing.Isn’t that just swapping one subsidy for another, Doctor?CARSON: Well, first of all, I was wrong about taking the oil subsidy. I have...... the best results, wouldn’t that be nice if the country could do that?But I will be putting — I will be putting up, you know, tremendous amounts of money. Super PACs are a disaster. They’re a scam. They cause dishonesty. And you had better get rid of them, because they are causing a lot of bad decisions to be made by some very good people.And I’m not blaming these folks — but I guess I could.(LAUGHTER)Very good people are making very bad decisions right now. And if anything comes out of this whole thing with some of these nasty and ridiculous questions, I will tell you, you had better get rid of the super PACs, because they’re causing a big problem with this country, not only in dishonesty and what’s going on, but also in a lot of bad decisions that are being made for the benefit of lobbyists and special interests.(CROSSTALK)QUICK: You know, Mr. Trump, if I may...(CROSSTALK)QUICK: Just a minute, Ms. Fiorina, let me follow up on this for just a moment.You talked a little bit about Marco Rubio. I think you called him “Mark Zuckerberg’s personal senator” because he was in favor H- 1B...(CROSSTALK)TRUMP: I never said that. I never said that.QUICK: So this was an erroneous article the whole way around?TRUMP: He has got another gentleman in Florida, who happens to be a very nice guy, but not...QUICK: My apologies. I’m sorry...(CROSSTALK)TRUMP: Everybody is really doing some bad fact...RUBIO: Since I’ve been mentioned, can I respond?QUICK: Yes. Yes, you may.RUBIO: OK. You know, the Democrats who have the ultimate super PAC, it’s called the mainstream media. (CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)And I’ll tell you why, last week, Hillary Clinton went before a committee, she admitted she had sent emails to her family saying, hey, this attack in Benghazi was caused by al Qaeda-like elements.She spent over a week telling the families of those victims and the American people that it was because of a video. And yet the mainstream media is going around saying it was the greatest week in Hillary Clinton’s campaign.It was the week she got exposed as a liar. It was the week that she got exposed as a liar...(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)But she has her super PAC helping her out, the American mainstream media.QUICK: Senator Rubio, thank you very much.I would like to introduce my colleague, Rick Santelli, he has some comments as well, sir.SANTELLI: Senator Cruz, let’s focus on our central bank, the Federal Reserve. You’ve been a fierce critic of the Fed, arguing for more transparency. Where do you want to take that?Do you want to get Congress involved in monetary policy, or is it time to slap the Fed back and downsize them completely? What are your thoughts? What do you believe?CRUZ: Well, Rick, it’s a very important question. I have got deep concerns about the Fed. The first thing I think we need to do is audit the Fed. And I am an original co-sponsor of Rand Paul’s audit the Fed legislation.The second thing we need to do is I think we need to bring together a bipartisan commission to look at getting back to rules- based monetary policy, end this star chamber that has been engaging in this incredible experiment of quantitative easing, QE1, QE2, QE3, QE- infinity.And the people who are being impacted, you know, a question that was asked earlier, Becky asked, was about working women. You know, it’s interesting, you look at on Wall Street, the Fed is doing great. It’s driving up stock prices. Wall Street is doing great.You know, today, the top 1 percent earn a higher share of our income than any year since 1928. But if you look at working men and women. If you look at a single mom buying groceries, she sees hamburger prices have gone up nearly 40 percent.She sees her cost of electricity going up. She sees her health insurance going up. And loose money is one of the major problems. We need sound money. And I think the Fed should get out of the business of trying to juice our economy and simply be focused on sound money and monetary stability, ideally tied to gold.SANTELLI: Senator Paul, the same question to you.PAUL: Well, thank you very much. I would like to thank Ted for co-sponsoring my bill, audit the Fed. And I think it’s precisely because of the arrogance of someone like Ben Bernanke, who now calls us all know-nothings, that is precisely why we need audit the Fed.I think it is really very much a huge problem that an organization as powerful as the Fed comes in, lobbies against them being audited on the Hill. I would prevent them lobbying Congress. I don’t think the Fed should be involved with lobbying us.I think we should examine how the Fed has really been part of the problem. You want to study income inequality, let’s bring the Fed forward and talk about Fed policy and how it causes income inequality.Let’s also bring the Fed forward and have them explain how they caused the housing boom and the crisis, and what they’ve done to make us better or worse. I think the Fed has been a great problem in our society.What you need to do is free up interest rates. Interest rates are the price of money, and we shouldn’t have price controls on the price of money.SANTELLI: Thank you, Senator.(APPLAUSE)Dr. Carson, you told The Des Moines Register that you don’t like government subsidies, it interferes with the free market. But you’ve also said that you’re in favor of taking oil subsidies and putting them towards ethanol processing.Isn’t that just swapping one subsidy for another, Doctor?CARSON: Well, first of all, I was wrong about taking the oil subsidy. I have studied that issue in great detail. And what I have concluded is that the best policy is to get rid of all government subsidies, and get the government out of our lives, and let people rise and fall based on how good they are.And — you know, all of this too big to fail stuff and picking and choosing winners and losers — this is a bunch of crap, and it is really causing a great deal of — great deal of problems for our society right now.And — and — you know, it goes back to the whole concept of regulations, which are in everything. The reason that I — I hate them so much is because every single regulation costs in terms of goods and services.That cost gets passed on to the people. Now, who are the people who are hurt by that? It’s poor people and middle class. Doesn’t hurt rich people if their bar of soap goes up ten cents, but it hurts the poor and the middle class.And Bernie Sanders will tell them that it’s because of the rich. Well, I’ll tell you something: you can take everything from the top 1 percent, and you apply it to our fiscal gap, and you won’t even make a dent in it.SANTELLI: Thank you, Doctor.Becky?QUICK: Rick, thank you very much.Governor Huckabee, you have railed against income inequality. You’ve said that some Wall Street executives should have gone to jail over the roles that they played during the financial crisis.Apart from your tax plan, are there specific steps you would require from corporate America to try and reduce the income inequality.HUCKABEE: I don’t think it’s so much about when the government orders a corporation to do something. In fact, that’s part of the problem. If you saw that blimp that got cut loose from Maryland today, it’s a perfect example of government.I mean, what we had was something the government made — basically a bag of gas — that cut loose, destroyed everything in its path, left thousands of people powerless, but they couldn’t get rid of it because we had too much money invested in it, so we had to keep it.That is our government today. We saw it in the blimp.(APPLAUSE)That’s exactly what we saw. So look, corporations ought to exercise some responsibility. When CEO income has risen 90 percent above the average worker, when the bottom 90 percent of this country’s economy has had stagnant wages for the past 40 years, somebody is taking it in the teeth.And it’s not the folks on Wall Street. I’m not anti-Wall Street, but I don’t believe the government ought to wear a team jersey, pick winners and losers.QUICK: Governor?HUCKABEE: The government ought to wear a striped shirt and just make sure the game...QUICK: Governor?HUCKABEE: ...is paid — played fairly.QUICK: Thank you. Now, everybody else has fudged their time and gone over, so please, don’t cut me off too quick, Becky.QUICK: All right, Governor Huckabee.HUCKABEE: Let me just close it out this way.QUICK: How about 15 more seconds?HUCKABEE: We need to be focusing on what fixes this country. And I’ll tell you one thing that we never talk about — we haven’t talked about it tonight.Why aren’t we talking about — instead of cutting benefits for old people, cutting benefits for sick people — why don’t we say, “let’s cure the four big cost-driving diseases...QUICK: Governor?HUCKABEE: ...”diabetes, heart disease, cancer and Alzheimer’s?”QUICK: Governor, I’m sorry...HUCKABEE: If you do that, you don’t just change the economy, you transform the lives of millions of hurting Americans.QUICK: Governor, thank you.HUCKABEE: Gosh, I’d love for us to talk about something like that. Thank you. QUICK: Governor, thank you. Appreciate it.John?HARWOOD: Governor Bush, the tax reform bill that Ronald Reagan signed in 1986 cut the top personal income tax rate to 28 percent — just like your plan does. But President Reagan taxed capital gains at the same rate, while you would tax them at just 20 percent.Given the problems we’ve been discussing, growing gap between rich and poor, why would you tax labor at a higher rate than income from investments?BUSH: Look, the — the simple fact is that my plan actually gives the middle class the greatest break: $2,000 per family. And if you make $40,000 a year, a family of four, you don’t pay any income tax at all.Simplifying the code and lowering rates, both for corporations and — and personal rates, is exactly what we need to do. You think about the regulatory cost and the tax cost — that’s why small businesses are closing, rather than being formed in our country right now.The big corporations have the scale to deal with all of this. And what I think all of us are saying is, our monetary policy, our tax policy, regulatory policy needs to be radically changed so we can create high sustained growth for income to rise.The government has tried it their way. Under — under Barack Obama and the proposals of Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders and others, they’ve tried it their way, and it has failed miserably.We need to take a new approach of taxing — reforming how we tax, and reforming the regulations in our — in our country before it’s too late.HARWOOD: Senator Rubio, 30 seconds to you.The Tax Foundation, which was alluded to earlier, scored your tax plan and concluded that you give nearly twice as much of a gain in after-tax income to the top 1 percent as to people in the middle of the income scale.Since you’re the champion of Americans living paycheck-to- paycheck, don’t you have that backward?RUBIO: No, that’s — you’re wrong. In fact, the largest after- tax gains is for the people at the lower end of the tax spectrum under my plan. And there’s a bunch of things my tax plan does to help them.Number one, you have people in this country that...HARWOOD: The Tax Foundation — just to be clear, they said the...(CROSSTALK)RUBIO: ...you wrote a story on it, and you had to go back and correct it.HARWOOD: No, I did not.RUBIO: You did. No, you did.(APPLAUSE)(CROSSTALK)HARWOOD: Senator, the Tax Foundation said after-tax income for the top 1 percent under your plan would go up 27.9 percent.RUBIO: Well, you’re talking about — yeah.HARWOOD: And people in the middle of the income spectrum, about 15 percent.RUBIO: Yeah, but that — because the math is, if you — 5 percent of a million is a lot more than 5 percent of a thousand. So yeah, someone who makes more money...HARWOOD: (inaudible)RUBIO: ...numerically, it’s gonna be higher. But the greatest gains, percentage-wise, for people, are gonna be at the lower end of our plan, and here’s why: because in addition to a general personal exemption, we are increasing the per-child tax credit for working families.We are lowering taxes on small business. You know, a lot of business activity in America is conducted like the guy that does my dry cleaning. He’s an S corporation. He pays on his personal rate, and he is paying higher than the big dry-cleaning chain down the street, because he’s paying at his personal rate.RUBIO: Under my plan, no business, big or small, will pay more than 25 percent flat rate on their business income. That is a dramatic tax decrease for hard-working people who run their own businesses.(CROSSTALK)RUBIO: ...The other thing I’d like to make about our plan, one more point, it is the most pro growth tax plan that I can imagine because it doesn’t tax investments at all. You know why? Because the more you tax something, the less of it you get.I want to be in — I want America to be the best...PAUL: ...John...RUBIO: ...in the world for people...HARWOOD: Senator, thank you.PAUL: John, I’d like to address this? John, could I follow up on this?QUINTANILLA: ...We’ll come back around. I want to get to governor Kasich.PAUL: What are the rules on who gets to follow up. How do we decide on who gets to follow up? I’ve seen plenty of other people follow up?QUICK: It’s at the moderator discretion.QUINTANILLA: Governor Kasich, let’s talk ...(CROSSTALK)QUINTANILLA: ...about Marijuana, Governor Kasich...PAUL: I’d like to just mention something about my tax plan, and how it relates to the discussion...QUINTANILLA: Alright, but 30 seconds, you made a case. Sure, 30 seconds.PAUL: Alright. Much of the discussion is centered over whether or not the different tax plans help, or affect the middle class. In fact, it’s the chief argument by democrats against many of the different flat tax proposals. Mine is unique in the sense that my tax plan actually gets rid of the payroll tax as well. It shifts it to the business, and it would allow middle class people to get a tax cut.If you just cut their income tax, there isn’t much income tax to cut. Mine actually cuts the payroll tax, and I think it would spread the tax cut across all socioeconomic levels, and would allow then it to be something that would be broadly supported by the public in an election.QUINTANILLA: Senator, thank you.CRUZ: Let me say on that...QUINTANILLA: Oh, no, no, no...CRUZ: ...Rand is exactly right. His plan is a good plan, and I will note that my 10% plan also eliminates the payroll tax, eliminates the death tax,QUINTANILLA: ...Ok...CRUZ: ...eliminates the business...MALE: (INAUDIBLE)CRUZ: ...income tax...MALE: What are you doing?CRUZ: ...10% flat rate...QUINTANILLA: ...We’re going to go to...CRUZ: ...is the lowest personal rate any candidate up here has, and what it would also enable us to do is for every citizen to fill out their taxes on a postcard so we can eliminate the IRS.(CHEERING) (APPLAUSE)QUINTANILLA: OK. Thank you, Senator. Governor Kasich, let’s talk about marijuana. We’re broadcasting from Colorado which has seen $150 million in new revenue for the state since legalizing last year. Governor Hickenlooper is not a big fan of legalization, but he’s said the people who used to be smoking it are still smoking it, they’re just now paying taxes.Given the budget pressures in Ohio, and other states, is this a revenue stream you’d like to have?KASICH: Well, first of all, we’re running a $2 billion dollar surplus, we’re not having a revenue problem right now. And, sending mixed signals to kids about drugs is a disaster. Drugs is one of the greatest scourge in this country, and I spent five years of my administration working with my team to do a whole sort of things to try to reign in the problem of overdoses, and it goes on and on. We could do a whole show on that.I want to go back for a second thought on this issue of income inequality. My program would move the 104 programs of the federal Department of Education into four block grants, and send them back to the states because income inequality is driven by a lack of skills when kids don’t get what they need to be able to compete and win in this country.The fact is, in order to get this economy moving again, I call for freezing regulations for a year except for the problem of public safety. I believe that we need to cut these taxes down, we need to be on a roadmap to balancing the budget, and we need to send power, money, and influence, the welfare department, the education department, job training, infrastructure, Medicaid, all of that out of Washington back to the states so we can run these programs from where we live to the top, not a one size fits all mentality that they have in Washington.And, that will get to the nub of opportunity for our children, and an ability to see wages rise. Again...(CROSSTALK)KASICH: ...One more time, in Ohio, our wages are growing faster than the national average. We’ve cut taxes, balanced budgets, changed the regulatory environment. Folks, you want to —QUINTANILLA: Thank you, Governor.KASICH: — fix America, this is the formula. It worked for Reagan and it works for our team in Ohio. Thank you.QUINTANILLA: Thank you. We’ll be back from Boulder, Colorado in just a moment.(APPLAUSE)(BREAK)QUICK: Welcome back to the University of Colorado and the Republican presidential debate right here on CNBC.Mr. Trump, I want to go back to an issue that we were talking about before, the H-1B visas. I found where I read that before. It was from the donaldjtrump.com website and it says — it says that again, Mark Zuckerburg’s personal senator, Marco Rubio has a bill to triple H-1Bs that would decimate women and minorities. Are you in favor of H-1Bs or are you opposed to them?TRUMP: I’m in favor of people coming into this country legally. And you know what? They can have it anyway you want. You can call it visas, you can call it work permits, you can call it anything you want. I’ve created tens of thousands of jobs, and in all due respect — and actually some of these folks I really like a lot — but I’m the only one that can say that. I have created tens of thousands of jobs, and I’ll be creating many millions of jobs if I’m given — if I’m given the opportunity to be president.As far as Mark is concerned, as far as the visas are concerned, if we need people, they have — it’s fine. They have to come into this country legally. We have a country of borders. We have a country of laws. We have to obey the laws. It’s fine if they come in, but they have to come in legally.QUICK: Thank you, sir.RUBIO: I was mentioned in the question.QUICK: You were. You get 30 seconds.RUBIO: Thank you.Well, I’ve learned the rules on this.(LAUGHTER)Look, in addition to what Donald was saying is we also need to talk about the legal immigration system for permanent residents. Today, we have a legal immigration system for permanent residency that is largely based on whether or not you have a relative living here. And that’s the way my parents came legally in 1956.But in 2015, we have a very different economy. Our legal immigration system from now on has to be merit-based. It has to be based on what skills you have, what you can contribute economically, and most important of all, on whether or not you’re coming here to become an American, not just live in America, but be an American.QUICK: Thank you, Senator. Thank you, Senator.Carl?QUINTANILLA: Mr. Trump, you’ve said you have a special permit to carry a gun in New York.TRUMP: Yes.QUINTANILLA: After the Oregon mass shooting on October 1st, you said, “By the way, it was a gun-free zone. If you had a couple of teachers with guns, you would have been a hell of a lot better off.”TRUMP: Or somebody else. Right.QUINTANILLA: Would you feel more comfortable if your employees brought guns to work?TRUMP: Yes, I might feel more comfortable. I would say that I would and I have a permit, which is very unusual in New York — a permit to carry. And I do carry on occasion, sometimes a lot. But I like to be unpredictable so that people don’t know exactly... (LAUGHTER)QUINTANILLA: Are you carrying one now?(LAUGHTER)(CROSSTALK)TRUMP: By the way, unlike our country where we’re totally predictable and the enemy, whether it’s ISIS or anybody else, they know exactly what we’re doing because we have the wrong leadership.(APPLAUSE)But I feel that the gun-free zones and, you know, when you say that, that’s target practice for the sickos and for the mentally ill. That’s target. They look around for gun-free zones. You know, we could give you another example — the Marines, the Army, these wonderful six soldiers that were killed. Two of them were among the most highly decorated — they weren’t allowed on a military base to have guns. And somebody walked in and shot them, killed them. If they had guns, he wouldn’t be around very long. I can tell you, there wouldn’t have been much damage.So, I think gun-free zones are a catastrophe. They’re a feeding frenzy for sick people.QUINTANILLA: We called a few Trump resorts, a few Trump properties that — that do not allow guns with or without a permit. Would you change those policies?TRUMP: I would change them. I would change them.QUINTANILLA: OK. All right. Thank you.John?HARWOOD: Governor Huckabee, you’ve written about the huge divide in values between middle America and the big coastal cities like New York and Los Angeles. As a preacher as well as a politician, you know that presidents need the moral authority to bring the entire country together.The leading Republican candidate, when you look at the average of national polls right now, is Donald Trump. When you look at him, do you see someone with the moral authority to unite the country?HUCKABEE: You know, of the few questions I’ve got, the last one I need is to give him some more time. I love Donald Trump. He is a good man. I’m wearing a Trump tie tonight. Get over that one, OK?(APPLAUSE)(CROSSTALK)(UNKNOWN): Is it made in Mexico?HUCKABEE: I don’t know.(UNKNOWN): Where’s it made? Is it made in China?(UNKNOWN): Is it made in China or Mexico?HUCKABEE: I have no idea.(CROSSTALK)TRUMP: Such a nasty — such a nasty question, but thank you, Governor.HUCKABEE: You’re welcome.(LAUGHTER)Let me tell you, Donald Trump would be a president every day of the week and twice on Sunday, rather than Hillary. I’ve spent a lifetime in politics fighting the Clinton machine.(APPLAUSE)You want to talk about what we’re going to be up against next year? I’m the only guy on this stage — you know, everybody has an “only guy” — “I’m the only guy this; I’m the only guy that.” Well, let me tell you one thing that I am the only guy: The only guy that has consistently fought the Clinton machine every election I was ever in over the past 26 years. And not only did I fight them, but I beat them.Somebody says “I’m a fighter.” Well, I want to know, did you win? Well, I did. And not only did I fight them and win, I lived to tell about it and I’m standing on this stage tonight as evidence of that. And I think that ought to be worth something.HARWOOD: Thank you, Governor.CHRISTIE: John, I’ll tell you something. You want to talk about moral authority. Let’s talk about something that happened this week in the news. You know, the FBI director, the president’s appointed FBI director has said this week that because of a lack of support from politicians like the president of the United States, that police officers are afraid to get out of their cars; that they’re afraid to enforce the law. And he says, the president’s appointee, that crime is going up because of this.And when the president of the United States gets out to speak about it, does he support police officers? Does he stand up for law enforcement? No, he doesn’t. I’ll tell you this, the number one job of the president of the United States is to protect the safety and security of the American people. This president has failed, and when I’m in the Oval Office, police officers will know that they will have the support of the president of the Untied States. That’s real moral authority that we need in the Oval Office.HARWOOD: Thank you, Governor.Don’t forget my colleague, Sharon Epperson.EPPERSON: Thank you, John.Mrs. Fiorina, you were the CEO of a large corporation that offers a 401(k) to its employees. But more than half of American have no access to an employer sponsored retirement plan.That includes the workers at small businesses, and the growing ranks of Uber drivers and other part-timers in the freelance economy.Should the Federal Government play a larger role in helping to set up retirement plans for these workers?FIORINA: No, the Federal Government should not play a larger role.Look, every time the Federal Government gets engaged in something it gets worse. And then the Government steps in to try and solve the problem and we get a little further down to that progressive vision that Hillary Clinton is talking about.Companies should, if they want to attract the best workers, provide a good set of benefits. But honestly, if you’re a small business owner today you are being crushed. We have 400,000 small businesses forming every year in this country. How great is that? They are employing themselves, they are potentially employing others.The bad news is, we have 470,000 going out of business every year. And why? They cite Obamacare.They are refusing to...EPPERSON: So you wouldn’t agree — you wouldn’t agree with a start for 401(k) for businesses or anything like that?FIORINA: I think it’s a wonderful that that businesses start a 401(k). The point I’m making is this, the Federal Government should not be in a lot of things.There is no Constitutional role for the Federal Government in setting up — retirement plans. There is no Constitutional role for the Federal Government to be setting minimum wages...EPPERSON: Thank you very much.FIORINA: ... The more the Government gets engaged in the economy, the slower the economy becomes. The more the Government gets engaged in the economy, it is demonstrably true...EPPERSON: Thank you, the rules say one minute.FIORINA: ... The more the big, the powerful, the wealthy and the well-connected are advantaged.EPPERSON: Thank you, Ms. Fiorina. We appreciate it. Thank you, thank you.I want to turn my attention now, to you now, Governor Kasich.Most people can’t get a college degree without going into debt. Over 40 million Americans have student loans and many of them cannot pay them back.This country has over $100 billion in student loan defaults. That’s billion with a b.What will you do to make sure that students, their families, taxpayers, won’t feel the economic impact of this burden for generations?Well, first of all, in Ohio we’re changing the whole system. Universities will not get paid one dime unless the student graduates or — graduates or completes a course.Secondly, you can be in high school and complete almost an entire first year before you go to college and get credit to do that. And, of course, in addition to that, we are working now to go after the cost drivers in our universities. And let me give you an example. Universities today have so many non-academic assets. At Ohio State they sold the parking garage and the parking lot, and they got $500 million because they shouldn’t be in the parking lot business. They shouldn’t be in the ding business, they shouldn’t be in the dorm business.And, of course, we need to take advantage of on-line education to reduce these costs and begin to dis-intermediate the cost of four years.Now, for those who that have these big high costs, I think we can seriously look at an idea of where you can do public service. I mean legitimate, public service and begin to pay off some of that debt through the public service that you do. And in the meantime, it may inspire us to care more about our country, more about ourselves.This is a big moral issue in America. Living a life bigger than yourself, and being a center of healing and justice. And people can learn it through public service.EPPERSON: Thank you, thank you.BUSH: We don’t need the federal government to be involved in this at all.QUICK: Higher education is the example...BUSH: We don’t need the Federal Government to be involved in this, because when they do we create a $1.2 trillion debt.In Florida, we have the lowest in-state tuition of any state, because there’s accountability, just as John said. Let the states do this. You’ll create a much better graduation rate at a lower cost, and you won’t in debt the next generation with recourse debt on their backs.It’s always a solution of the left to create more Government from the Federal Government. It is broke, it is not working.(CROSSTALK)QUINTANILLA: Governor Bush, daily fantasy sports has become a phenomenon in this country, will award billions of dollars in prize money this year. But to play you have to assess your odds, put money at risk, wait for an outcome that’s out of your control. Isn’t that the definition of gambling, and should the Federal Government treat it as such?BUSH: Well, first of all, I’m 7 and 0 in my fantasy league.QUINTANILLA: I had a feeling you were going to brag about that.BUSH: Gronkowski is still going strong. I have Ryan Tannehill, Marco, as my quarterback, he was 18 for 19 last week. So I’m doing great. But we’re not gambling.And I think this has become something that needs to be looked at in terms of regulation. Effectively it is day trading without any regulation at all. And when you have insider information, which apparently has been the case, where people use that information and use big data to try to take advantage of it, there has to be some regulation.If they can’t regulate themselves, then the NFL needs to look at just, you know, moving away from them a little bit. And there should be some regulation. I have no clue whether the federal government is the proper place, my instinct is to say, hell no, just about everything about the federal government.(CROSSTALK)CHRISTIE: Carl, are we really talking about getting government involved in fantasy football?(LAUGHTER)We have — wait a second, we have $19 trillion in debt. We have people out of work. We have ISIS and al Qaeda attacking us. And we’re talking about fantasy football? Can we stop?(APPLAUSE)CHRISTIE: How about this? How about we get the government to do what they’re supposed to be doing, secure our borders, protect our people, and support American values and American families. Enough on fantasy football. Let people play, who cares?(CROSSTALK)QUICK: I want to go back, if I can, to the issue of...(CROSSTALK)QUICK: I want to go back, if I may, to the... HARWOOD: Governor Christie, you’ve said something that many in your party do not believe, which is that climate change is undeniable, that human activity contributes to it, and you said, quote: “The question is, what do we do to deal with it?”.So what do we do?CHRISTIE: Well, first off, what we don’t do is do what Hillary Clinton and John Kerry and Barack Obama want us to do, which is their solution for everything, put more taxes on it, give more money to Washington, D.C., and then they will fix it.Well, there is no evidence that they can fix anything in Washington, D.C.HARWOOD: What should we do?CHRISTIE: What we should do is to be investing in all types of energy, John, all types of energy. I’ve laid out...HARWOOD: You mean government?CHRISTIE: No, John. John, do you want me to answer or do you want to answer?(LAUGHTER)How are we going to do this?(APPLAUSE)Because, I’ve got to tell you the truth, even in New Jersey what you’re doing is called rude. So...(LAUGHTER)We’ve laid out a national energy plan that says that we should invest in all types of energy. I will tell you, you could win a bet at a bar tonight, since we’re talking about fantasy football, if you ask who the top three states in America are that produce solar energy: California and Arizona are easy, but number three is New Jersey.Why? Because we work with the private sector to make solar energy affordable and available to businesses and individuals in our state.We need to make sure that we do everything across all kinds of energy: natural gas, oil, absolutely. But also where it’s affordable, solar, wind in Iowa has become very affordable and it makes sense.That is the way we deal with global warming, climate change, or any of those problems, not through government intervention, not through government taxes, and for God’s sake, don’t send Washington another dime until they stop wasting the money they’re already sending there.HARWOOD: Thank you, Governor.(APPLAUSE)HARWOOD: Becky.QUICK: Senator Paul, among the leading conservative opponents to the creation of Medicare back in the 1960s was Ronald Reagan. He warned that it would lead to socialism. Considering the mounting cost of Medicare, was he right to oppose it?PAUL: The question always is, what works better, the private marketplace or government? And what distributes goods better? It always seems to be the private marketplace does a better job.Is there an area for a safety net? Can you have Medicare or Social Security? Yes. But you ought to acknowledge the government doesn’t do a very good job at it.The main problem with Medicare right now is that the average person pays in taxes over their whole lifetime about $100,000. But the average person takes out about $350,000. We have this enormous mismatch because we have smaller and smaller families.When people ask me, whose fault is it? Whose fault is it that Medicare is broken, out of money, that Social Security is broken, out of money? And I say, look, it’s not Republicans’ fault, it’s not Democrats’ fault, it’s your grandparents’ fault for having too many damn kids.(LAUGHTER)After the war we had all of these kids, Baby Boomers. Now we’re having smaller families. We used to have 16 workers for one retiree, now you have three workers for one retiree.It’s not working. I have a bill to fix Medicare. I’ve a bill to fix Social Security. For both of them you have to gradually raise the age. If you’re not willing to do that, nobody wants to do it, but if you’re not willing to gradually raise the age, you’re not serious about fixing either one of them.QUICK: Senator, thank you.UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Becky, may I...QUINTANILLA: This is the— well, we’re going to take a break. We want to save time for closing statements after the break.So this is the Republican presidential debate in Boulder, and we’ll be right back.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)(APPLAUSE)QUICK: Welcome back to Boulder, Colorado and the Republican presidential debate right here on CNBC.Governor Huckabee, you wanted to respond to the points that Senator Rand Paul was just making when it comes to Social Security. Your time, sir.HUCKABEE: Well, and specifically to Medicare, Becky, because 85 percent of the cost of Medicare is chronic disease. The fact is if we don’t address what’s costing so much, we can’t throw enough money at this. And it’s why I’ve continued to focus on the fact that we need to declare war on the four big cost drivers because 80 percent of all medical costs in this country are chronic disease. We don’t have a health care crisis in America, we have a health crisis.And until we deal with the health of Americans and do what we did with polio — when I was a little kid, we eradicated it. You know how much money we spent on polio last year in America? We didn’t spend any. We’ve saved billions of dollars.You want to fix Medicare? Focus on the diseases that are costing us the trillions of dollars. Alzheimers, diabetes, heart disease and cancer. Eradicate those and you fix Medicare and you’ve fixed America, its economy and you’ve made people’s lives a heck of a lot better.BUSH: Becky —QUICK: Thank you, Governor.(APPLAUSE)BUSH: — the governor’s absolutely right. But we also need to reform Medicare and Social Security. We can’t just allow it to continue on its current path the way that Hillary Clinton wants to do because there’ll be major reductions in benefits in the next decade if we do nothing.I have a concrete plan to do just that, which allows people to keep HSAs to encourage savings, it allows for people that are retiring with Social Security to be able to get a minimum of 125 percent of the poverty level so that there is a baseline that in this generous country of ours no one goes below.HARWOOD: Governor Bush, Mr. Trump says that he is capable of growing the economy so much that Social Security and Medicare don’t have to be touched. Do you want to explain how that is going to happen, Mr. Trump?TRUMP: Yes, it’s very simple. We’re going to make a really dynamic economy from what we have right now, which is not at all dynamic. We’re going to bring jobs back from Japan, we’re going to bring jobs back from China, we’re going to bring, frankly, jobs back from Mexico where, as you probably saw, Nabisco is leaving Chicago with one of their biggest plants, and they’re moving it to Mexico.We’re going to bring jobs and manufacturing back. We’re going to cut costs. We’re going to save Social Security, and we’re going to save Medicare.(UNKNOWN): Governor, you just heard him.BUSH: You have to reform Social Security, and the simple way to do it is to make sure that the wealthiest don’t receive the same benefits as people that are lower-income.And make sure you enhance savings in the private market. The idea of 401(k)s. I have a small business that I set up. It took — it took an arm and a leg to be able to set up a 401(k). Because of all the federal mandates and federal laws, it was too expensive.We need to incent private savings and make sure that Social Security is protected for those that have it.KASICH: John.BUSH: But the idea that you can’t — that you’re just gonna grow your way out of this — I have a plan to grow the economy at 4 percent, but you’re gonna have to make adjustments for both Medicare and Social Security.(UNKNOWN): Governor Kasich, do you want 30 seconds?KASICH: I wanna tell you, in my state, we took Medicaid, the hardest program to control, and we took it from a 10 percent growth rate to 2.5 percent without taking one person off the rolls or cutting one single benefit.And so much of what we did — to force competition, to use technology, to stand down the special interest groups — can you imagine taking Medicaid from 10 to 2.5 percent?We can take many of those same procedures, we can apply it to Medicare. We can make a stronger program. But I agree with Jeb, you can’t just do this by growing the economy. You can’t grow your way out of demographics.But we can give people better health care. And finally, on health care, why don’t we start treating — keep giving...QUICK: Governor.KASICH: ...incentives for people to keep people healthy, rather than giving the incentives to treat them when they’re sick?QUICK: Governor, thank you.Senator Paul, let’s go back to you. Do these solutions sound like they work?PAUL: Say again?QUICK: Do these solutions sound like they would work?PAUL: You can’t do nothing. And that’s what I hear from some people, “we’ll do nothing and it will just be fixed.” That’s absurd, and I think people who don’t want to fix it, really, or unwilling to take the chance to say, “something has to change,” are missing the boat here.The age will have to gradually rise, there is no question. It’s the only way you fix Medicare, the only way you fix Social Security. You will also have to means-test the benefits and declare there’s not enough money.It isn’t “I put money in, I’m getting it back.” There is no money, it’s a stack of paper. There is no money in the Social Security account. There is no money in the Medicare account. There’s only a promise to pay by the next generation, and the next generation’s not big enough to pay it.(CROSSTALK)(UNKNOWN): ...to deal with this. We did it 200 days ago.HARWOOD: Hold on, Governor. I’ve got a question for — for Dr. Carson.CARSON: About Medicare?HARWOOD: Yes. You’ve said that you would like to replace Medicare with a system of individual family savings accounts, so that families could cover their own expenses.Obviously, that would be a very controversial idea. Explain how that would work, exactly.CARSON: Well, first of all the — the plan gives people the option of — of opting out. But I think they will see a very good option here. You know, the annual Medicare budget is over $600 billion. And there are 48 million people involved — 40 million, 65 and over, and 8 million other.Divide that out. That comes out to $12,500 for each one. Now, I can tell you there are a lot of private-sector things that you could do with $12,500, which will get you a lot more than you get from this government program.And that’s really a theme of a lot of the things that I’m talking about. How do we utilize our intellect rather than allowing the government to use its, quote, “intellect,” in order to help us to be able to live healthier and better lives?It was never intended that the government should be in every aspect of our lives. This is a country that is of, for and by the people.QUICK: Thank you, Dr. Carson.Governor?CHRISTIE: And — and — and I — you know, Ben is absolutely right in saying that what we don’t need to do is to send more money to Washington, D.C. to fix this problem.And that’s what you’ll hear from Hillary Clinton — and I’ve already heard from her — is that, send more money in Social Security, send more money in Medicare taxes, send more money for Medicaid, and that’s gonna solve the problem.What we know is we’re living longer. That’s a blessing. It’s a blessing that we’re living longer, so we have to increase the retirement age to reflect that blessing.We need to make sure that people understand, as Jeb said before, that if you’ve done extraordinarily well in this country, do you want them to take more out of your taxes now and think they’re gonna give it back to you later? Or would you rather take less later on?QUINTANILLA: Senator Rubio...HARWOOD: Governor, do you also think that...QUINTANILLA: ...yeah, I just wanted (inaudible).HARWOOD: ...that Dr. Carson’s right, that we can replace Medicare with individual savings accounts?RUBIO: No. No. What I said was that I think that Dr. Carson’s ideas are good ideas. They’re not my ideas, and I don’t necessarily agree with all of them.But this is what you’re seeing in the Republican debate that you didn’t see in that Democrat debate.You didn’t see it for a minute. You didn’t see these kind of ideas being batted around, and being batted around in a way that’s civil and smart and that’s trying to help to inform the voter out there.What you saw was a parade of, “I’ll give you this for free; I’ll give you that for free.”Let me tell you, everybody, when they say they want to give it to you for free, keep your hands on your wallets because they’re coming to you to pay for it. And that’s why I think these ideas up here are great, and that’s what we should have is have more discussions like this and less gotcha.(CROSSTALK)QUINTANILLA: I want to give you 30 seconds here.RUBIO: I want to take off from that point and argue the same thing. And that is that one of the things you’re watching tonight are 11 quality candidates debating an important issue. The Republican Party is blessed to have 11 good candidates, (inaudible) 10 good candidates. The Democrats can’t even come up with one.And on this issue of the Medicare in particular, it’s important because they’re going to demagogue what we’re saying here tonight. Everyone up here tonight that’s talking about reforms, I think and I know for myself I speak to this, we’re all talking about reforms for future generations. Nothing has to change for current beneficiaries. My mother is on Medicare and Social Security. I’m against anything that’s bad for my mother.(LAUGHTER)So, we’re talking about — we’re talking about reform for people like me and people like Senator Cruz, as he talked about earlier, who are years away from retirement that have a way to plan for these changes, and way that’s very reasonable. And it’s not too much to ask of our generation after everything our parents and our grandparents did for us.FIORINA: John, I — if I — a lot of people have jumped in here. I’d like to jump in. A lot of people have jumped in here.HARWOOD: Mrs. Fiorina, we’re right at the end of our time.FIORINA: I understand.HARWOOD: You all wanted us to limit (inaudible).All right. Go ahead.FIORINA: I would just say that...(LAUGHTER)... I would just say this, we’ve heard a lot of great ideas up here, and I agree with what Senator Rubio said. Every election we talk about this. Every election we talk about Medicare and Social Security reform. It never happens.I would like to start with a basic. Let us actually go to zero- based budgeting so we know where the money is being spent. It’s kind of basic. There is a bill sitting in the House that would actually pass and have us go to zero-based budgeting so we know where every dime of your money is being spent instead of only talking about how much more we’re going to spend year after year after year.My point is this. While there are lots of good ideas for reform, we have never tackled the basics. And we finally need to tackle the basics to cut this government down to size and hold it accountable. So let’s start by knowing where your money is being spent by the federal government.HARWOOD: We have now reached the point in the program where candidates are going to give their closing statements, 30 seconds apiece. We’re going to go right to left and start with you, Senator Paul.PAUL: Liberty thrives when government is small. I want a government so small I can barely see it. I want a government so small that the individual has a chance to thrive and prosper. I think, though, government is too big now. And what you’re going to see in Washington this week is establishment Republicans have made an agreement with the president to raise the debt ceiling in an unlimited fashion; no limit to the debt ceiling raise.This is extraordinary. It’s extraordinarily wrong. You’ll see me on the floor of the Senate tomorrow filibustering this and saying enough is enough, no more debt.HARWOOD: Governor Christie?CHRISTIE: I want to talk to the folks at home. I want to ask you: Are you fed up with how Washington taxes you? Are you fed up with how Washington wastes your money? Are you concerned like I am that the debt and deficits of Washington, D.C. are endangering America’s future?I’ve got one more question for you then. Are you serious about this election? Because if you are, you need to elect someone who’s deadly serious about changing this culture. I am deadly serious about changing this culture. I changed it in New Jersey. I’m deadly serious about doing this job the right way.I’m prepared. I’m tested. I’m ready. And I want to make this our government. For the people who say we can’t do it, I say hell no, we can do it together.HARWOOD: Thank you, Governor.Senator Cruz?CRUZ: You know, everyone here talks about the need to take on Washington. The natural next question is who actually has done so. Who actually has stood up not just to Democrats, but to leaders in our own party? When millions of Americans rose up against Obamacare, I was proud to lead that fight. When millions of Americans rose up against amnesty, I was proud to lead that fight. When millions of Americans rose up against Planned Parenthood, I was proud to lead that fight.If people are promising they’re going to take on Washington and cronyism, you need to look to who has been doing it. In my family, my dad fled oppression in Cuba to come to America. Freedom is personal for me, and I will always keep my word and fight for freedom.HARWOOD: Thank you, Senator.Mrs. Fiorina?FIORINA: You know, every election we hear a lot of talk. We hear a lot of good plans. We hear actually a lot of good intentions. But somehow for decades, nothing really has changed. What we need now is a proven leader who has produced results. That’s how you go from secretary to CEO. You lead and you produce results. I will cut this government down to size and hold it accountable, simplify the tax code, roll back the regulations that have been spewing out of Washington, D.C. for 50 years.I may not be your dream candidate just yet, but I can assure you I am Hillary Clinton’s worst nightmare. And in your heart of hearts, you cannot wait to see a debate between Hillary Clinton and Carly Fiorina. I will tell you this, I will beat Hillary Clinton. And with your vote and your support and your prayers, I will lead with the citizens of this great nation the resurgence of this great nation.HARMAN: Thank you, Mrs. Fiorina.Dr. Carson?CARSON: I just want to thank all my colleagues here for being civil, and not falling for the traps. And, I also just want to thank the audience for being attentive, and noticing the questions, and the noticing the answers. And, this is what I am finding throughout America.People are waking up because it is going to be us who will determine the direction of our country. And, it was made for we the people, we are the ones who decide who we are, and we should never give away the values and principles that made America into a great nation for the sake of political correctness.(APPLAUSE)HARWOOD: Mr. Trump?TRUMP: Our country doesn’t win anymore. We used to win, we don’t win anymore. We lose on trade. We lose with ISIS. We lose with one of the worst deals I’ve ever seen negotiated of any kind, that’s our recent catastrophe with Iran. We don’t win.Let me give you one quick example. These folks, CNBC, they had it down at three, three and a half hours. I just read today in the New York Times, $250,000 for a 30 second ad. I went out and said, it’s ridiculous. Nobody — I could stand up here all night. Nobody wants to watch three and a half, or three hours. It was a back sacrifice, and I have to hand it to Ben.We called Ben, he was with me 100%. We called in, we said, that’s it. We’re not doing it. They lost a lot of money, everybody said it couldn’t be done. Everybody said it was going to be three hours, three and a half, including them, and in about two minutes I renegotiated it so we can get the hell out of here. Not bad.(APPLAUSE)TRUMP: And, I’ll do that with the country. We will make America great again. And, thank you everybody. Just for the record.HARWOOD: Just for the record, the debate was always going to be two hours. Senator Rubio?TRUMP: That’s not right. That is absolutely not right. You know that. That is not right.MALE: Thank you.HARWOOD: Senator Rubio.RUBIO: You know, America doesn’t owe me anything. I have a debt to America I’ll never repay. This isn’t just the country I was born in, this is the nation that literally changed the history of my family. My parents in this country were able to give me the chance to do all the things they never did. We call that the American Dream, although, it’s built on the universal dream of a better life.The fact that it’s happened for so many people here throughout our history, that’s what makes us special. But, now for millions of Americans, it’s slipping away. And, we have a government and leaders in government that are completely out of touch, and that’s why I’m running for president. Because we can’t just save the American Dream, we can expand it to reach more people, and change more lives than ever before.And, that’s why tonight I’m asking you for your vote.HARWOOD: Thank you, Senator. Governor Bush?BUSH: America’s at a crossroads. The D.C. politicians continue to make things worse. I have a proven record of success, 32 years in business, and 8 years as Governor of the state of Florida.I will change the culture in Washington, just as I changed the culture in Tallahassee. I will do so in a way that will bring people together. We need a unifier, not a cynical divider in chief, and that’s exactly what I will do.Imagine a country where people are lifted out of poverty again. Imagine a country where the middle class can get rising income again. I know we can do this because we’re still the most extraordinary country on the face of the Earth.HARWOOD: Thank you, Governor. Governor Huckabee.HUCKABEE: You know, I know to a lot of people in the media, this is just a great big game, and we’re the players. And, we come out here, and we do our thing. And, sometimes we’re held up in contempt by people who write columns, but, I guarantee you to every person on this stage there’s something deep inside of us that would cause us to give up our livelihoods and step out on this stage and fight for the people of America.I’ve got five grandkids. I do not want to walk my five grandkids through the charred remains of a once great country called America, and say, “Here you go, $20 trillion dollars of debt. Good luck making something out of this mess.”And, for those of us who are serious enough to run for president, think long and hard why we’re here, and hopefully you’ll know we’re not here for ourselves. We honest to god are here to get this country back on track. I know this, I certainly am.HARWOOD: Thank you...HUCKABEE: ...Thank you.HARWOOD: Governor Kasich?KASICH: I was on morning Joe at a town hall and a young student stood up and said, “Can I still be idealistic?”I said, absolutely, you can still change the world. And, you know the old inscription, if you save one life, you’ve changed the world. Folks, we have a problem here with the leadership in Washington, but I’ll tell you another problem. We need to rebuild our families. We need to have stronger families. We need to know who our neighbors are. We need to come together as a country because we have to realize that America is great, not from the top-down. Oh yeah, we want to elect a good president, but America is great from the bottom-up, and the bottom-up is us in our families, in our communities, in our neighborhoods. We will renew America if we work together, and I am totally confident that we will. And God bless America.(APPLAUSE)HARWOOD: Thank you, Governor.QUINTANILLA: That concludes tonight’s debate. On behalf of my colleagues Becky Quick, John Harwood, Sharon Epperson, Rick Santelli and Jim Cramer, we’d like to our host, the University of Colorado at Boulder, the Republican National Committee, the candidates and, of course, tonight’s audience.CNBC’s Kelly Evans and Joe Kernan pick up our continuing coverage.ENDSee More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorSAN FRANCISCO — WHEN audiences watch the movie “Spare Parts” in theaters this month, they will see the kind of Hollywood ending that has eluded the immigration debate in Congress.The film is based on my reporting about four young immigrants who built an underwater robot. In the movie, which closely reflects the true story, the students enter the nation’s pre-eminent robotics competition, an event sponsored by NASA and the Navy. They win widespread recognition for their accomplishments and, when the movie ends in 2004, their future is bright.Unfortunately, that’s not how the story really ends.All four students were born in Mexico and were brought across the border illegally as children. Though they grew up in Arizona and viewed themselves as Americans, the law did not. They lived with the daily threat of deportation. Oscar Vazquez dreamed of joining the Army — he was officer of the year in his J.R.O.T.C. program — but discovered he couldn’t enlist because he didn’t have legal residency. Cristian Arcega was a geeky brainiac who found few outlets for his smarts in gang-torn West Phoenix. Lorenzo Santillan was a former gang member himself looking to stay clean. And Luis Aranda, the only one who had gotten a work permit, just the year before, was a hulking giant of a kid who rarely spoke.This ragtag group from Carl Hayden Community High School in West Phoenix constructed the robot out of cheap plastic tubing and garbage. It smelled so bad, they called the machine Stinky. The other entrants — almost all college students — had corporate sponsors and serious budgets. This was an underwater robotics contest, but Carl Hayden didn’t even have a swimming pool. Nonetheless, Stinky came in first place.After the event, lower ranked contestants went on to rewarding jobs at tech companies and research institutes. Meanwhile, the Carl Hayden students struggled to afford tuition for college.Lorenzo Santillan considered becoming a mechanical engineer, but instead earned a cheaper associate degree in cooking. Today he works as a line cook. Luis Aranda studied cooking as well but did not complete a degree and now works as a janitor.Oscar Vazquez’s story is the most dramatic. He also had a scholarship to A.S.U., and after working menial jobs for a year, was able to attend. He was a sophomore when Proposition 300 passed, and managed to stay in school only by piecing together more scholarships, all while leading the university’s robotics team to regional championships. He graduated with a degree in mechanical engineering in 2009 and applied for legal residency.Not only was his application denied, but he was also summarily banned from the United States for 10 years for living here without a visa. He ended up working on an assembly line in Mexico.After a year, his ban was reversed when Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, interceded on his behalf. Mr. Vazquez returned, enlisted in the Army, and served a tour of combat duty in Afghanistan. He is finally a citizen, and repairs trains in Montana for the railroad company BNSF.Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, the program created by President Obama’s executive order that shields some undocumented students and young adults from deportation, didn’t go into effect until 2012. Had it been in place when the Carl Hayden students were in high school, allowing them to legally work, their lives might have turned out very differently. They have surmounted enormous odds, but none were able to professionally pursue their passion for robotics. It is a startling rebuke to the American dream.Those who oppose granting residency to these immigrants argue that it would deny resources to existing residents and citizens. But we’ve already invested in these students all through elementary and high school. Why not continue and get a return on that investment?There is rising demand for the talent these students possess. We grant roughly 85,000 H1B visas, for immigrants with special skills, to engineers to fill jobs here. In doing so, we overlook a generation of students who are deemed foreigners but who grew up here and plan to stay. When their visas expire, a majority of H1B visa holders will leave, and take the skills they developed with them. At a time when science and technology prowess will be critical to this country’s growth, we can’t afford to squander the homegrown brainpower of students like Oscar, Lorenzo, Luis and Cristian.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS*Racial identity is also complicated by class: I went to a public high school in a mostly Irish- and Polish-American working-class town with a large emerging population of brown and black kids: Puerto Ricans, migrant kids of Mexican, Colombian, Salvadoran, Nicaraguan, Brazilian and Portuguese descent. I felt more comfortable there with the brown kids than I did in my middle-class grammar school composed almost entirely of white kids, many of whom, as I realized only as an adult, were racial bullies. To this day, I exhibit personality traits which are stereotypically “Jersey working class,” which make it rather awkward to fit into the “genteel academic” circles in which I often find myself these days.Aside from the cultural hostilities that are foisted upon brown people, my non-ambiguous brownness sensitizes me to the vulnerabilities — the lack of rights, security, safety, legal protection — of being nonwhite in a polity that understands “good” and “deserving” members as being white and upper- or at least middle-class men and women. I remember my mother being treated roughly by police when she was in a traffic accident and again, their indifference when she was targeted by the “Dotbusters,” a self-appointed gang of racial nationalists that was assaulting Asian Indians in northern New Jersey in the late 1980s.When I was finally granted an interview for U.S. citizenship in December 2000, I asked a relative to accompany me in the event that there was trouble. The interview was demanded by the government during the American Philosophical Association meetings in December 2000 (it was virtually impossible to renegotiate the appointment without a long, punishing, delay). Despite a heavy snowfall, we arrived an hour early. The I.N.S. interviewer was over an hour late in opening up the office, and cheerfully told me that I was lucky he had decided to show up. Conversationally and with a broad smile, he told me a series of stories about the various applicants he had had deported, even if they — like myself — had been in the United States since they were toddlers or infants, even if they knew no one from their countries of birth, and even if they stood to be in danger there. He emphasized how few protections immigrants had, and his message was: The United States will deport without a second thought, and hey, it’s the immigrant’s problem, not theirs.Electing one, two, or even 50 politicians or hiring multiple bureaucrats of color doesn’t end systemic racial inequality or discrimination, although it does provide a convenient (if superficial) defense against charges of racism.My book attempts to show that racism, racial exclusion, racial violence, is part and parcel of liberalism. For example, we see the exclusions in early liberal writings: In John Locke’s “Second Treatise of Government,” he discusses the social contract and the equal opportunity to “earn” property for everyone, except the “lunatics and idiots,” women, and “savages.” The treatise also offers a “just war” theory of slavery. Locke helped write the “Fundamental Constitutions of Carolina,” which afforded slave owners complete control over their slaves, alongside representative government. These key ideas are both, “compatibly,” in that document.Other examples include the internment of Americans, Peruvians and other Latin Americans of Japanese origin during the Second World War, or the deportation of Chinese migrants from the United States in the 1880s, and the disfranchisement of Asians from their United States-purchased land in the early 1900s. And needless to say, the wide-scale disfranchising of Muslims in the post-9/11 United States is but another recent example. In each of these cases, they are deprived of protections because they are perceived as threats in some way, and so they become — explicitly or not so explicitly — subject to laws intended to constrain, dehumanize, criminalize them. It is a gradual process, but they are increasingly vilified, demonized, dehumanized, which then rationalizes the move to strip them of protections under the mantle of “legality.” That is what my work explores.The political philosopher Charles Mills’s understanding of white supremacy is useful here. Mills uses the term to note that the social contract is predicated on a racial hierarchy where whites are at the top, and blacks and nonwhites below. I want to clarify that, in terms of political institutions, “whiteness” is a category of power based on a general, but not universal, correlation between those in power and general racial identity. In my work, “whiteness” is not about any individual specifically but about groups in power, and it is negotiated and contoured by factors of gender, class, ethnic identity, and institutional and historical factors — such as how certain groups are understood at various moments.Read previous contributions to this series.In “post-racial” America, white supremacy continues by ensuring that those in bureaucratic, lawmaking, executive, policy-making functions continue to do what those in the top 5 percent — and others who benefit from white supremacy — need to remain on top: ensure that bankers are not punished; pretend that minorities weren’t duped into taking on subprime loans or balloon-payment mortgages; justify rampant invasive surveillance and warmongering in the name of national security; and arrest and detain immigrants — not just adults, but children! Laws and policies that support these events enable at least two things: the siphoning of money away from poorer, darker, vulnerable, vilified populations who have been subject to racism, violence, police brutality and a distraction from the real, everyday problems that affect those populations.And perhaps most importantly, such a comparison falsely focuses on poverty and wealth as a consequence of individual character, rather than as the result of policies that benefit those who already have, while hurting those who have little. This is why I think discussing racism as a “matter of the heart,” or individual cultural attitudes is useful but limiting. It inhibits us from considering systemic analyses, and thereby systemic solutions to systemic problems.Poor whites won’t be racially profiled by white police, or store clerks, or white or nonwhite landlords to the same degree as darker men across economic classes will be. Yet, thinking institutionally, because economic policies adversely impact those who are already disadvantaged, poor blacks and poor whites will both suffer that impact. However, those in power and positions of authority will most often blame working-class and poor blacks for various moral character flaws. We have seen it countless times: from Daniel Moynihan’s infamous 1965 report which traces poverty to character flaws of African-Americans to Ronald Reagan’s vilification of poor black women who then came to be referred to as “welfare queens,” to President Obama’s multiple admonitions to black men to be more responsible fathers. This is despite the fact that we have ample evidence illustrating that black men are incarcerated six times as often as white men, and that they suffer from racial profiling and discrimination and unfair laws like “stop and frisk,” which collectively inhibit them from finding employment, housing or economic success.Presumably, if poor blacks suffer from “character flaws,” then so do poor whites and other populations of color, but we rarely hear the same moral admonitions directed towards them.George Yancy is a professor of philosophy at Duquesne University. He has written, edited and co-edited numerous books, including “Black Bodies, White Gazes,” “Look, a White!” and “Pursuing Trayvon Martin,” co-edited with Janine Jones.More From Fixes »More From Private Lives »More From Couch »More From The Stone »More From Moviegoers »More From The End »More From Draft »More From Anxiety »More From Menagerie »More From Disunion »More From Bedside »More From The Conversation »More From The Great Divide »More From Errol Morris »FollowAdvertisementMeanwhile, of course, the global race for highly skilled workers continues. Countries with far more generous visa policies, such as Canada and Australia, continue with the proverbial eating of America’s lunch.The country has to do a lot more to attract immigrants at all skill levels, to reunite families, to be a place where entrepreneurs and innovators the world over want to come, contribute and put down roots. President Obama gets it. Republicans talk about competitiveness, too, but too often they stand in the way.AdvertisementAdvertisementNovember  5, 2014Keith Boykin, former aide to President Bill ClintonLinda Chavez, former Reagan officialDonna Brazile, Democratic political strategistNorman J. Ornstein, American Enterprise InstituteGreg Valliere, political strategistDan Schnur, University of Southern CaliforniaKatrina Vanden Heuvel, Editor, The NationAdvertisementApril 16, 2013Marshall Fitz, Center for American ProgressLegalization would increase the earnings of all Americans, provide more jobs and generate federal, state and local tax revenues.Jessica M. Vaughan, Center for Immigration Studies.If mass immigration is so great for the economy and the deficit, then why haven’t we seen much progress on either in the last few years?Marta Tienda, professor of sociology and demography, Princeton UniversityCongress should require legal immigrants to buy lifelong health insurance for their older family members before they're allowed in the country.Grover Norquist, Americans for Tax ReformThe flawed "welfare" system isn't a good argument against having children, for fatal accidents for 50-year-olds, or  against reasonable levels of immigration.Michael Greenstone and 
            Adam Looney, The Brookings InstitutionRecent research suggests that immigration raises wages and lowers prices for consumers throughout the economy.AdvertisementThe sponsors said they hoped to win passage of the bill in the Senate by early June.AdvertisementThe Senate bill would eliminate that sibling preference 18 months after the law takes effect. The senators have said that applications already submitted under that preference will be completed; no one with a valid application who is waiting in line will be left out.AdvertisementThe backlogs in that category are huge. The longest wait is for siblings from the Philippines. Visas are being issued this month to Filipino siblings who applied in July 1989.It is too soon to predict when or even if either bill would pass or become law. We are at the beginning of a far-ranging, fast-paced and very lively debate in Congress on these proposals.Immigrants with provisional status would not be eligible for any federal benefits available to low-income people. For example, they would not be eligible for Medicaid, food stamps, temporary assistance for needy families, low-income assistance in the prescription drug program or federal housing aid.The children of immigrants with provisional status, and children with that status, would be allowed to attend public schools through high school. This is not related to the Senate bill. The Supreme Court determined in a 1982 decision that immigrant children could attend school regardless of their status. Also, hospital emergency rooms are required by current law to provide care to anyone seeking it.AdvertisementA goal of the Senate bill is to bring more than 11 million illegal immigrants into the system, requiring them to pay any back taxes they owe (many of these immigrants already pay taxes) as well as their future taxes. Provisional immigrants who fail to pay their taxes would not be eligible to become citizens. So, the immigrants would be among the taxpayers paying for the services.Since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the Department of Homeland Security and other federal law enforcement agencies have revamped their systems for checking the backgrounds of foreigners applying for visas and other immigration benefits. Criminal and national security databases maintained by the F.B.I. have been linked to Homeland Security’s immigration records. Illegal immigrants applying for registered provisional status under the bill will have to give fingerprints, photographs and biographical information that would be run through the databases.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.A recent dress rehearsal, on a smaller scale, came last year when the Obama administration offered deportation deferrals to young people here illegally who came when they were children. Since August, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, the agency in charge of that program, has processed more than 488,000 applications, including taking fingerprints from more than 450,000 immigrants. So far, at least, there have been few reports of fraud. Immigration lawyers have reported that many young people who had criminal records decided not to apply for deferrals.However, under the Senate bill as many as 11 million undocumented immigrants could be eligible for provisional status. During the debate in the Senate, federal officials will no doubt face questions about what measures they are planning to stop fraud.AdvertisementThe bill includes a provision authorizing Homeland Security officials to charge fees “sufficient to recover all costs” of registering the immigrants. In order to qualify for provisional status, immigrants will have to pay a $500 penalty as well as any back taxes, and they will have to pay additional fees and all taxes they owe during a period of at least 10 years during which they would remain with that status. As a result, the sponsors of the bill say that it will generate significant federal revenues.That issue will be the subject of much debate in coming weeks.Unlike some versions of the Dream Act, in the Senate bill there is no age cap on immigrants who can apply, if they meet the other requirements.AdvertisementThe bill gives the Homeland Security secretary authority to create streamlined procedures for young people who have been granted Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or D.A.C.A., under a program the Obama administration started in 2012. Those young immigrants would probably gain provisional status without having to go through the whole application process again.Under the Senate bill, immigrants with a Ph.D. in any field would be exempt from the annual cap of 140,000 visas for employment-based green cards, and so would their spouses.The bill also creates a new merit system, starting with 120,000 green cards a year to be granted on a point-system based on educational degrees and job skills, among other factors. In addition, starting on Oct. 1, 2014, fast-track visas will also be available under the merit system for immigrants who have been waiting in backlogs for employment-based visas for at least three years.There are no good estimates of how many immigrants applying for provisional status would owe unpaid taxes or how much they would owe. Even though most undocumented immigrants do not have valid Social Security numbers, many file tax returns using individual taxpayer identification numbers they can obtain from the I.R.S.Go to Home Page »India’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16.The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977.Follow'dia’s national elections began April 7 and will continue on nine separate dates until May 12, with results expected to be announced on May 16.The vote is the world’s largest, with 814 million eligible voters set to choose 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. The other two seats will be appointed by the president. This election is widely considered to be India’s most consequential since 1977.FollowAdvertisementIf current trends continue at the same pace — and if my life isn’t cut short by overconsumption of oysters or cigars — I will live to see the 2050 Census measure an even more wonderfully diverse America, where my own demographic subgroup has become a minority.Without this increasing diversity, America’s population would have been largely stagnant. Over the last 40 years, our country’s population has increased by 106 million people. Seventy-four percent of that increase, 78 million people, came from the growth of the minority population.Typically, minority growth explains 50 to 100 percent of the growth in a state’s population. In a number of states, including Massachusetts, New York and Ohio, the growth in the minority population is about double the total population growth, meaning there were significant decreases in the non-Hispanic white population.Even in Nevada, which experienced a robust 12 percent increase in its non-Hispanic white population, more than three-quarters of population growth came from minority groups.To understand why some areas are growing more than others, it is essential to understand why some areas are particularly attractive for nonwhite populations.The minority population increases are particularly important for the dense urban areas that disproportionately house immigrants and other lower-income individuals. Cities have been gateways into the country for centuries, and they continue to play that role.Immigrants are a major part of our most successful urban cores, like Boston (27 percent foreign-born) and New York (36 percent foreign-born), but they also swell the population of small cities like Lawrence, Mass. (34 percent foreign-born), and Yonkers (29 percent foreign-born).The ability to get around without buying cars is worth a lot to people who have just come to this country.The largest share of the total increase in the minority population comes from Hispanics and Latinos – the compound term that the Census uses — who represent 16.3 percent of our population, up from 12.5 percent just a decade ago and 4.5 percent in 1970.Other groups have also increased sharply. The African-American population increased by more 12 percent since the last Census. Almost 5 percent of the country is now Asian; the numerical growth in the Asian population alone was about double the growth of the non-Hispanic white population.Our own age has also seen plenty of politicians pushing an anti-immigrant, or at least anti-illegal-immigrant, agenda.When we let in less-skilled immigrants, we are fulfilling America’s promise as a place of opportunity for everyone – a promise that was offered to all of our ancestors.Each day, Economix offers perspectives from expert contributors.FollowAdvertisementAdvertisementThe following is a transcript of the CNN-Tea Party Republican presidential debate in Tampa, Fla., as provided by Federal News Service:Moderator: Wolf Blitzer, CNNLocation: Expo Hall, Florida State Fairgrounds, Tampa, FloridaTime: 8:10 p.m. EDTDate: Monday, September 12, 2011WOLF BLITZER: Governor Huntsman, we'll begin with you.FORMER GOVERNOR JON HUNTSMAN (R-UT): Wolf, delighted to be here. Yesterday we were reminded how extraordinary this country is when we pull together during a time of need. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are deeply divided. I believe I have the experience and the leadership necessary to move this country forward.HERMAN CAIN: I'm Herman Cain. I am the only nonpolitician on this stage tonight, and I believe that America has become a nation of crises. That's why I want to be president of the United States of America.AdvertisementREPRESENTATIVE MICHELE BACHMANN (R-MN): My name is Michele Bachmann. I know we can do so much better in this country. That's why I'm the chief author of the bill to repeal Dodd-Frank, the bill to repeal "Obamacare," and I -- that's why I brought the voice of the tea party to the United States Congress as the founder of the Tea Party Caucus. (Cheers, applause.)AdvertisementFORMER GOVERNOR MITT ROMNEY (R-MA): My name is Mitt Romney. And like you, I recognize that America's economy is in crisis. Got a lot of people without work and a lot of people wonder whether the future is going to be brighter for their kids.I spent my life in the private sector. I understand how jobs come to America and why they go. And I want to use that experience to get America growing again, adding jobs and assuring every citizen that they know that their kid and their grandkid will have a brighter future. Thank you. (Applause.)GOVERNOR RICK PERRY (R-TX): I'm Governor Rick Perry, and I'm proud to be here today with the Tea Party Express. And I simply want to get America working again and make Washington, D.C., as inconsequential in your life as I can. (Cheers, applause.)REPRESENTATIVE RON PAUL (R-TX): I'm Congressman Ron Paul, a congressman from Texas. I've been in the Congress for 20 years.My goal has always been to promote the cause of liberty and to obey the Constitution. I plan to do that as president, as well. (Applause.)NEWT GINGRICH (former speaker of the House of Representatives, R- GA): I'm Newt Gingrich. I think it is totally appropriate that we're having this particular debate on 9/12. And in the spirit of 9/12, I hope to work with you to fundamentally, profoundly change Washington in what will be a long and difficult struggle against the forces of reaction and special interests. (Cheers, applause.)RICK SANTORUM (former senator, R-PA): I'm Rick Santorum. I'm a former two-term senator from a state that has over a million more registered Democrats than Republicans, and I won two elections there without having to change my policies or my party to win. (Applause.)AdvertisementMR. BLITZER: Ladies and gentlemen, the eight Republican presidential candidates. (Applause.)All right, let's start off here in Tampa. We have a tea party activist. Please identify yourself and ask your question.Q: (Off mic) -- First Coast Tea Party, Jacksonville, Florida. My question: How will you convince senior citizens that Social Security and Medicare need to be changed, and get their vote?MR. BLITZER: Good question. Let me begin with Michele Bachmann.Congresswoman, how do you do that? How do you go ahead and change -- reform Social Security, Medicare, while at the same time getting votes?REP. BACHMANN: Well, one thing that we need to let senior citizens know is for those who are currently on the Social Security system, the United States government made a promise to senior citizens, and we have to keep that promise to them. But we also need to know that for those who are not yet on the system, the system simply has to be reformed in order for it to work.The same goes with Medicare.We know that President Obama stole over $500 billion out of Medicare to switch it over to "Obamacare." We also know that Medicare hospital trust fund will be bankrupt within nine years.These are programs that need to be saved to serve people, and in their current form, they can't. So we need to have someone who understands these programs, who -- who understands the solutions to these programs. I'm a person that's had feet in the private sector and a foot in the federal government. I've been there long enough to know the problems but not long enough to become a part of the system. I know what to do and I have the core conviction to be able to make the changes that senior citizens can count on.MR. BLITZER: Governor Perry, speaking of Social Security, you've said in the past it's a Ponzi scheme, an absolute failure, unconstitutional, but today you wrote an article in USA Today saying it must be saved and reformed. Very different tone. Why?GOVERNOR RICK PERRY (R-TX): Well, first off, the people who are on Social Security today need to understand something: Slam dunk guaranteed, that program is going to be there in place for those. Those individuals that are moving towards being on Social Security, that program's going to be there for them when they arrive there.AdvertisementBut the idea that we have not had the courage to stand up and look Americans in the face, young mid-career professionals or kids that are my children's age, and looked them in the eye and said, listen, this is a broken system -- it has been called a Ponzi scheme by many people long before me, but no one's had the courage to stand up and say here is how we're going to reform it, we're going to transform it for those in those mid-career ages, but we're going to fix it so that our young Americans that are going out into the workforce today will know without a doubt that there were some people who came along that didn't lie to them, that didn't try to go around the (edges/hedges ?), and told them the truth.MR. BLITZER: Governor Romney, you've said that Governor Perry's position on Social Security is, quote, "unacceptable," and could even obliterate the Republican Party. Are you saying he could not, as Republican nominee, beat Barack Obama?MR. ROMNEY: No, what I'm saying is that what he just said I think most people agree with, although the term "Ponzi scheme" I think is over the top and unnecessary, and frightful to many people. But the real issue is that in writing his book Governor Perry pointed out that, in his view, that Social Security is unconstitutional, that this is not something the federal government ought to be involved in, that instead it should be given back to the states. And I think that view and the view that somehow Social Security has been forced on us over the past seventy years, that by any measure -- again, quoting from his book -- by any measure, Social Security has been a failure -- this is after seventy years of tens of millions of people relying on Social Security -- that's a very different matter.So the financing of Social Security we've all talked about at great length. In the last campaign four years around, John McCain said it was bankrupt. I put in my book a series of proposals as to how to get it on sound financial footing so that our kids could count on it; not just our current seniors. But the real question is does Governor Perry continue to believe that Social Security should not be a federal program, that it is unconstitutional, and it should be returned to the states, or is he going to retreat from that view.GOV. PERRY: I think we ought to have a conversation with --MR. ROMNEY: We're having that right now, Governor. This -- we're -- that's -- we're running for president.GOV. PERRY: If you'll let me finish, I'll -- I'll finish this conversation. But the issue is are they ways to move the states into Social Security for state employees or for retirees? We did in the state of Texas back in the 1980s. I think those types of thoughtful conversations with America rather than trying to scare seniors like you're doing and other people -- (cheers, applause) -- it's time to have a legitimate conversation in this country about how to fix that program where -- that's not bankrupt and our children actually know that there's going to be a retirement program there for them.MR. ROMNEY: Governor, the term "Ponzi scheme" is what scared seniors, number one. And number two, suggesting that Social Security should no longer be a federal program and returned to the states and unconstitutional is likewise -- look, there are a lot of very bright people who agree with you. And -- and that's your view. I -- I happen to have a different one. I think that Social Security is an essential program, that we should change the way we're funding it to make sure -- to make --GOV. PERRY: Governor, you're calling it a criminal -- you said if people did it in the private sector if would be called criminal. That's in your book. (Cheers.)AdvertisementMR. ROMNEY: Did what? Yeah, what I said was -- Governor Perry, you've got to quote me correctly. You said "it's criminal." What I said was Congress taking money out of the Social Security Trust Fund is like criminal, and that is, and it's wrong. (Cheers, applause.)MR. BLITZER: Congressman Paul, let me expand this conversation. Do you agree with Governor Perry that Social Security is a Ponzi scheme?REP. PAUL: Well, I agree that Social Security is broke. We spent all the money, and it's on its last legs unless we do something. One bill that I had in Congress that never got passed was to prevent the Congress from spending any of that money on the wars and all the nonsense that we do around the world. (Cheers, applause.)Now the other -- the other thing that I would like to see done is a transition. I -- I -- I -- I think it's terrible that they -- you -- that the Social Security system is in the -- in the problems -- it has the problems that it has. But if people wouldn't have spent the money, we would be OK.Now what I would like to do is to allow all the young people to get out of Social Security and go on their own! (Cheers, applause.) Now the big question is -- is how would the funding occur.MR. BLITZER: All right. Hold that thought for a minute, because I want Herman Cain to get involved.Are you with Governor Perry, that Social Security is a Ponzi scheme?MR. CAIN: I don't care what you call it. It's broken. And here's my solution. (Cheers, applause.)MR. : Amen to that.MR. CAIN: Start with optional personal retirement accounts. In 1981 the Galveston County employes, they opted out. Because there was a very short window of opportunity, they took it. Today when people retire in Galveston County, Texas, they retire making at least 50 percent more than they would ever get out of Social Security.AdvertisementSecondly -- (applause) -- secondly, allow younger workers to have personal retirement accounts as an option.Now to answer this gentleman's question, current seniors will not be affected. It's to give the option to the younger workers. The Galveston County model worked, and it also worked in the small country of Chile. Instead of giving it to these states, let's give it back to the workers. That's personal retirement accounts would do. (Cheers, applause.)MR. BLITZER: Governor Huntsman, when it comes to reforming Social Security, is anything, from your perspective, off the table?MR. HUNTSMAN: I don't think anything should be off the table, except maybe some of the drama that's playing out here on this floor today. I mean, to -- to -- to hear these two go at it over here, it's almost incredible. You've got Governor Romney, who called it a fraudin his book "No Apology." I don't know if that was written by Kurt Cobain or not. And then you've got Governor Perry, who's calling this a Ponzi scheme.All I know, Wolf, is that we're frightening the American people, who just want solutions.And this party isn't going to win in 2012 unless we get our act together and fix the problem. We all know that we've got entitlement problems, we've got Medicare, we've got Social -- the fixes are there. I mean, the Ryan plan is there, for heaven's sake. We've got the answers. We don't have leadership. That's the problem. (Cheers, applause.)MR. BLITZER: Speaker Gingrich, would you raise the retirement age for Social Security recipients?MR. GINGRICH: No, not necessarily. But let me start with -- I'm not particularly worried about Governor Perry and Governor Romney frightening the American people, when President Obama scares them every single day. (Extended cheers, applause.) This is eating into my time. Let me -- let me -- if I -- let me just say to all of you --MR. BLITZER: Well, let me just pinpoint the question. What would you do to fix Social Security?MR. GINGRICH: OK, but can I also expand for a second? Because this -- that was not a rhetorical joke. President Obama twice has said recently he couldn't guarantee delivering the checks to Social Security recipients. Now, why should young people who are 16 to 25 years old have politicians have the power for the rest of their life to threaten to take away their Social Security? (Cheers, applause.)AdvertisementNow, I just want to make two simple points about Social Security and how you save it. The first is, you get back to a full-employment economy, and at 4 percent unemployment you have such a huge increase in funding that you change every single out-year projection in a positive way.The second is, you say precisely -- and several folks here have said it -- if you are younger -- everybody who's older and wants to be totally protected, fine. No change. So don't let anybody lie to you, starting with the president. No change. But if you're younger and you'd like a personal account you would control instead of the politicians --MR. BLITZER: All right.MR. GINGRICH: -- and you know you'll have more money at the end of your lifetime if you control it than the politicians, why shouldn't you have the right to choose?(Cheers, applause.)MR. BLITZER: Thank you, Mr. Speaker.Senator Santorum, when it comes to Social Security, are you with Governor Romney or Governor Perry?MR. SANTORUM: Well, the question is, who's with me? Because -- (laughter) -- because I've been out here talking about -- you want to talk about courage to tell the truth, Governor? I was out in 1994 running against a Democratic incumbent in a campaign managed by James Carville, and I went out and talked about Social Security reform. Why? Because I knew this day was coming. And I had the courage to go out and say Social Security is in trouble. And I told a group of young people at LaSalle University that we needed to do something like raising the retirement age.They ran that on TV for three weeks prior to the election, in the second oldest per-capita state in the country, and I still won the election. Why? Because the people of Pennsylvania wanted someone who had the courage to tell them the truth. (Applause.) And I had the courage to tell them the truth.And what I've done since I was in the United States Senate is every year I proposed -- I went, in fact, with Bill Clinton in 1997 on the first bipartisan Social Security town hall meeting, and I was the spokesperson, a Republican conservative from a blue state out there leading the charge on Social Security. You folks want someone with courage? I've got a track record of courage and a track record of concrete proposals on how to fix this, among some of the things that have been discussed here tonight.MR. BLITZER: Senator -- Senator, thank you. (Applause.)Let's go to another question. We have a question now from the audience. Go ahead, identify yourself.AdvertisementQ: Hi. My name is Dr. Bridget Melson with the Pleasanton Tea Party. Good to be here. My question for you is, what is your plan to balance the budget and get this spending under control so that my children's share of the debt is erased without compromising my retired mother's already tenuous financial future?MR. BLITZER: Good question. Let me ask Speaker Gingrich to respond, and I'll sort of paraphrase it: How do you do that? How do you protect seniors, balance the budget -- so much of the budget goes for defense and entitlements like Social Security, Medicare?MR. GINGRICH: But that's just a Washington mythology. And anybody who knows anything about the federal government knows that there's such an enormous volume of waste that if you simply had a serious, all-out effort to modernize the federal government, you would have hundreds of billions of dollars of savings -- (inaudible). Let me say I helped balance the budget for four straight years, so this is not a theory. Rick and I were working together on this. This is not a theory. You voted for it. So we can balance the federal budget.But let me start with -- all of you should go to Strong America Now, which is a group that believes if you modernize the federal government, you save $500 billion a year. Now, check and see whether this supercommittee of 12 in their august power is willing to sit down with that group and actually learn how to be smart rather than cheap and actually modernize the federal government. (Applause.) One example -- one example: The federal government is such a bad manager of money that somewhere between 70 (billion dollars) and $120 billion a year in Medicare and Medicaid is paid to crooks. We wrote a book several years ago called "Stop Paying the Crooks." I thought it was pretty obvious even for Washington. So I would start to balance the budget by stop paying the crooks, not by cheating honest Americans. (Cheers, applause.)MR. BLITZER: Senator Santorum, staying on the issue of spending -- budget deficits, you voted for the prescription drug benefits for seniors when you were in the United States Senate, costing about a trillion dollars. If you had to do it over again, you wouldn't vote for that. But if you were president of the United States, would you repeal prescription drug benefits for seniors under Medicare?MR. SANTORUM: I think we have to keep a prescription drug component, but we have to pay for it. In other words, we have to have a program that is funded. Now, the reason that -- that -- that program has actually worked well is it's come in 40 percent under budget because it's a program that uses private sector insurance, not government-run, one-size-fits-all health care.If we do that for the rest of Medicare, which is what the Ryan proposal suggests, and something that I proposed, again, years ago -- had the courage to go out and lead on this issue, then we would be able to have a prescription drug program and we'd be able to have Medicare that you choose.The idea that unless we have a government-run, one-size-fits-all Medicare program -- that that's throwing grandma off the cliff -- is Washington-think, is people who think in Washington -- this president, who believes that they know better than you how to run your life and how to purchase your health care -- I trust you, I trust the American people. That is the greatness of our country. (Applause.)AdvertisementMR. BLITZER: Thank you, Senator.Governor Perry, it was President Bush who pushed for prescription drug benefits for seniors; not President Obama.GOV. PERRY: Right.MR. BLITZER: It was President Bush who pushed for prescription drug benefits for seniors.The question to you: If you were president -- it's not a difficult question -- would you vote to eliminate, to repeal those prescription drug benefits --GOV. PERRY: No, but --MR. BLITZER: -- for seniors under Medicare?GOV. PERRY: No, it's a $17 trillion hole that we have in our budget we've got to deal with, and I think that's the issue of how do you find the savings and still deliver the services. For instance, in the state of Texas, we combined a substantial amount of our health and human services from 10 down to five agencies. We put an office of inspector general into place, and we saved over $5.3 billion, Newt, just by finding the waste and the fraud in Texas state government.I'm thinking there might be more waste and fraud in the federal government even than there is in the Texas government.MR. BLITZER: So Governor, just to be precise; if you were president, you wouldn't repeal prescription drug benefits for seniors under Medicare.GOV. PERRY: I -- that's what I said when I started the conversation.MR. BLITZER: Okay, just want to be precise on that, Governor. (Applause.)GOV. PERRY: Yes, sir.Governor Romney, what about you?MR. ROMNEY: I wouldn't repeal it; I would reform Medicare, and reform Medicaid and reform Social Security to get them on a sustainable basis -- not for current retirees, but for those in their 20s and 30s and early 50s.AdvertisementBut the key to balancing the budget -- and we -- and we talk about all the waste in government and the inefficiency, and having spent 25 years in business, I know something about taking waste out of enterprises. I'd love to do that to the federal government. And there is massive waste. But we're not going to balance the budget just by pretending that all they -- all they have to do is take out the waste. We're going to have to cut spending. And I'm in favor of cutting spending, capping federal spending as a percentage of GDP at 20 percent or less, and having a balanced budget amendment. That's essential to rein in the scale of the federal government.And there's a second part to balancing the budget, and that's growing the economy again. And that's why I laid out a plan to restructure the foundation of America's economy to start creating jobs again, so people are paying taxes, businesses are paying taxes, not because we're raising the rates but because we're growing the economy. The right answer for America is to stop the growth of the federal government and to start the growth of the private sector. (Applause.)MR. BLITZER: Congressman Paul, what about you? Would you repeal it?REP. PAUL: Well, we shouldn't have -- never started it. I voted against it. But that sure wouldn't be on my high list. I would find a lot of cuts a lot of other places.Matter of fact, on Social Security, it is already being reformed because the cost of living increases aren't there, so the value is going down.So no, there's places we should cut. And we've cut -- we spend -- and I'm not sure I can get anybody to agree with me on here -- on this panel, but we spend $1.5 trillion overseas in wars that we don't need to be in -- (applause) -- and we need to cut there and then put this money back into our economy here. And that is the only way to achieve it. Then it still wouldn't be enough in order to get some people out. What we need to do is cut the Department of Education, Department of Energy -- (cheers, applause) -- and all these departments and get rid of them. Then we can do it.MR. BLITZER: We're going to get to national security; don't worry.Congresswoman Bachmann, what about you?REP. BACHMANN: Well, I think that the principle has to change, because for years politicians have run on the idea that government is going to buy people more stuff and that the federal government would be taking care of people's prescription drugs, their retirement, their health care, their housing, their food.We're the "everybody else" that's paying for the freight for all of these things. That's the principle that has to change -- (applause) -- because we have to now recognize that going forward this isn't going to work any more. We have to be an ownership society, where individual responsibility, personal responsibility, once again becomes the animating American principle. (Cheers, applause.) And we can't be ashamed of that.AdvertisementMR. BLITZER: All right, we've got a lot more to discuss. We're only just beginning.I want to take a quick break. I want our viewers out there to know they can weigh in, they can respond. Go to Twitter, Facebook, CNN.com. We want to hear from you if you have questions for the eight Republican presidential candidates. You'll have an opportunity to get some questions to them.We're going to talk about jobs, jobs, jobs, when we come back. (Cheers, applause.)(Announcements.)(Cheers, applause.)MR. BLITZER: Welcome back to the CNN/tea party Republican presidential debate.We got a question from Portsmouth, Virginia. Please identify yourself. Go ahead.Q: Good evening. My name is Sandra Jones from Yorktown, Virginia. My question is, what would you do to get the economy moving forward? Do you have a plan? And if so, what is it?MR. BLITZER: All right. Good question. Let's ask Governor Huntsman.The first thing you would do as president of the United States, knowing, of course, that President Obama today formally gave legislation to Congress with his jobs plan.MR. HUNTSMAN: Let us recognize first and foremost that what we are seeing playing out in America is a human tragedy. We have millions and millions who are unemployed, millions beyond who are so dispirited they've completely given up trying to find a job.We've got moms and dads and families that have been economically shipwrecked. And it's a great American tragedy that we're watching play out.I have put forward a program that I want all of you to understand is basically patterned after what I did as governor. I think when you look at everybody on the stage here, all you have to do is say, where have they been and what have they done?AdvertisementFirst and foremost, I want to reform this tax code. I've put forward a program that the Wall Street Journal has come out and endorsed. It basically calls for stripping out the loopholes and the deductions and lowering the rates for individuals, cleaning out corporate welfare and subsidies on the corporate side and lowering the rate, leaving us a whole lot more competitive for the 21st century. That's the first item of business I'd drop on the doorstep of Congress.Second is regulatory reform, because we cannot go forward with "Obamacare." (Applause.) We cannot go forward with Dodd-Frank, because businesses in this country are saying there's no predictability; there's no ability to see around the bend; we don't know what costs are going to be; we're not hiring and bringing new people on.Third, this country needs to wean itself from its heroinlike addiction to foreign oil. We need energy independence desperately in this country. (Cheers, applause.)MR. BLITZER: Thank you, Governor.Governor Perry, the president in his new plan has a lot of tax cuts: payroll tax cuts, middle-class tax cuts, tax credits for hiring veterans, tax credits for hiring long-term unemployed people. Are those things you would support?GOV. PERRY: And he's going to pay for them all with raising your taxes. That is the issue. He had $800 billion worth of stimulus in the first round of stimulus. It created zero jobs. Four hundred plus billion dollars in this package, and I can do the math on that one: Half of zero jobs is going to be zero jobs. (Laughter, applause.) This president does not understand how to free up the small-business men and women or, for that matter, Wall Street. You give people the opportunity to risk their capital by lowering the tax burden on them, by lowering the regulatory climate, and you will see an American economy that takes off like a rocket ship. And that's what we need to be focusing on in this country: freeing up the small-business men and women to do what they know how to do, which is risk their capital and give them a half a chance to have a(n) opportunity to have a return on that investment, and they will go risk their capital. That's what the president of the United States needs to do: quit the spending, give clear regulatory relief and reform the tax code.MR. BLITZER: So just to be precise, Governor, whenever the president supports tax cuts, that has to be balanced with spending cuts?GOV. PERRY: I would suggest to you that people are tired of spending money we don't have on programs we don't want. (Cheers, applause.)MR. BLITZER: Congresswoman Bachmann -- I'm going to bring Mr. Cain in in a moment, but the Bush tax cuts in 2001 and 2003, which went across the board, were not offset with spending cuts. And as a result, potentially, a lot of economists think the deficit went up and up and up.AdvertisementREP. BACHMANN: Well, there's a reason why the deficit went up and up and up. When you have a trillion dollars worth of spending that you don't pay for, it's going to go up. And now we're seeing again that the president wants to do more of the same.I was the leading voice in the wilderness of Washington all summer. I was one of the only people in Washington that said: Do not raise the debt ceiling. (Applause.) Don't give the president of the United States another $2.4 trillion blank check. You've got to draw the line in the sand somewhere and say: No more out-of-control spending.The president wanted to borrow money from countries like China, to pay it back, for a stimulus. We've got $1.2 trillion already that's been earned by American countries (sic) overseas. If we have a zero-percent tax rate, Wolf, we can bring that 1.2 trillion (dollars) -- it's called repatriation -- bring that in. You'd have 1.2 trillion (dollars) flooded into the -- into the system. Then, pass the free trade agreements, so that we can move the economy. Permanently lower the tax code. I'm a federal tax lawyer; I know how to do that. Repeal Dodd-Frank; repeal "Obamacare."It really isn't that tough if you try. (Cheers, applause.) It's easy to turn around this economy. Just have the backbone to do it.MR. BLITZER: All right. Mr. Cain.MR. CAIN: Yes. This economy is on life support. I don't want -- we need a bold solution, not one that tinkers around the edges, not one that allows the politicians to continue to pick winners and losers. I believe we throw out the entire tax code and put in my 9-9- 9 plan -- (cheers, applause) -- 9-9-9: a 9-percent business flat tax; a 9-percent personal income tax; and a 9-percent national sales tax.Now, I've been told by some people: Well, you can't get that done. I say: Why? Well, because you don't know how Washington works.Yes, I do. It doesn't. (Cheers, applause.) The American people are ready to do something bold. We need a bold solution in order to get this economy growing at the maximum rate.I agree with many of the others up here who say you get the government out of the way, American entrepreneurship --AdvertisementMR. BLITZER: All right --MR. CAIN: -- American businesses, they will create the jobs if we provide some certainty. (Applause.)MR. BLITZER: Governor Romney, you know Governor Perry, as governor of Texas, created more jobs in Texas than any other state.MR. ROMNEY: Terrific state. No question about that. Some wonderful things that Texas has going for it that the nation could learn from. Zero income tax -- (chuckling) -- that's a pretty -- pretty good thing. Right-to-work state. Republican legislature. Republican supreme court. By the way, a lot of oil as well.We're an energy-rich nation. We're living like an energy-poor nation. (Applause.) I spent my life in the private sector. I've competed with companies around the world. I've learned something about how it is that economies grow. It's not just simple -- wave a wand and everything gets better. No, you have to make some structural changes.The world has changed. What's happened over the last 20, 30 years is we've gone from a pay phone world to a smartphone world. And President Obama keeps jamming quarters into the pay phone thinking things are going to get better. It's not connected, Mr. President. (Applause.)And so if we're going to get this economy going, we've got seven things we got to do. One, make our tax code competitive with the world. Two, get regulations to work to encourage enterprise. Three, to make sure we have trade policies that work for us, not just for the other guys. Four is to have energy security in this country by developing our energy resources. Five is to execute the rule of law, which is to stop the Boeing decision that the NLRB put in place. (Cheers, applause.) Six is to make sure that we have institutions that create fantastic human capital. And finally, number seven, is to balance the budget. People won't invest here unless they have confidence here.MR. BLITZER: So --MR. ROMNEY: And that's what I'll do.MR. BLITZER: Just to get back to the question, so does Governor Perry deserve any credit for all those jobs that were created in Texas?MR. ROMNEY: Oh, sure. Oh, sure.MR. BLITZER: Go ahead and tell him how much credit he deserves. (Laughter, applause.)AdvertisementMR. ROMNEY: Well, now -- well, look, you know, I -- I think Governor Perry would agree with me that if you're dealt four aces, that doesn't make you necessarily a great poker player.AUDIENCE MEMBERS: Oooh!MR. ROMNEY: And four aces -- and the four aces that are terrific aces the nation should learn from were the ones I described: zero income tax, low regulation, a right-to-work state, oil in the ground and a Republican legislature. Those things are terrific. And by the way, there has been great job growth in Texas. Under Ann Richards, job growth was 2 1/2 percent a year. Under George Bush, it was 3 percent a year. Under Rick Perry, it's been 1 percent a year. Those are all good numbers. Those are all good numbers. But Texas is a great state. And I'll tell you, if you think that the country is like Texas, going swimmingly well, then somebody who's done that is just terrific. But if you think the country needs a turnaround, that's what I do.MR. BLITZER: All right, Governor Perry. You were dealt four aces.GOV. PERRY: Well, I was going to say, Mitch (sic), you were doing pretty good till you got to talking poker. (Laughter.) But the fact is the state of Texas has led the nation. While the current resident of the White House has overseen the loss of 2.5 million jobs, Texas has during my period as a governor created over a million jobs. And we did that during some pretty tough economic period. (Applause.) One of the things that's really important, one of the things that the Fed Reserve chairman said was the most powerful -- one of the most powerful things that happened was tort reform that we passed in that state. (Applause.) And you want to talk about some powerful job creation: Tell the trial lawyers to get out of your state -- (cheers, applause) -- and to quit costing businessmen and women. That's what needs to happen in the state, and it's also what needs to happen at the federal level: passing federal tort reform at those federal levels.MR. BLITZER: Congressman Paul, you're from Texas. Does your governor deserve all that credit?REP. PAUL: Not quite. (Chuckles.) (Laughter.) I'm a taxpayer there. My taxes have gone up. Our taxes have doubled since he's been in office.Our debt -- our spending has gone up double. Our debt has gone up nearly triple. So, no, and 170,000 of the jobs were government jobs.So I would put a little damper on this, but I don't want to offend the governor, because he might raise my taxes or something. (Laughter, applause.)But I would like to mention something that was said earlier about a tax cut and can you -- how do you pay for a tax cut. I think that's the wrong principle, because when you give people their money back, it's their money. You don't have to pay for it. (Applause.) That means the government owns all of our money if you look that way.MR. BLITZER: All right.REP. PAUL: So we -- we have to cut the spending. And a good way to start -- there's a little embassy we built over in Baghdad. It cost us a billion dollars. It's bigger than the Vatican. That's what's bankrupting this country. And that's the easy place to cut. That's where we should be cutting. (Cheers, applause.)AdvertisementMR. BLITZER: Governor Perry --GOV. PERRY: Yeah.MR. BLITZER: -- you have 30 seconds to tell --GOV. PERRY: Right.MR. BLITZER: -- Congressman Paul whether you're going to (raise his taxes ?).GOV. PERRY: While I've -- while I've been governor, we have cut taxes by $14 billion, 65 different pieces of legislation. You may have not seen them, Representative Paul.But the fact of the matter is there are people coming to Texas, for five years in a row the number-one destination. They're not coming because we're overtaxing them. They're coming to Texas because they know there's still a land of freedom (of/in ?) America -- freedom from over-taxation, freedom from over-litigation, and freedom from over-regulation, and it's called Texas. We need to do the same thing for America. (Applause.)MR. BLITZER: Let me bring Speaker Gingrich into this conversation. Jobs, jobs, jobs. All of us who covered you when you were speaker and you worked together with President Clinton at the time, you compromised, he compromised, you got things done. There was a budget surplus for as far as the eye could see.If you were president, would you work with the Democrats, assuming they were the majority in the House or the Senate? Would you compromise with them on some of these gut issues?MR. GINGRICH: Well, you know, after the last debate when Governor Huntsman and governor Perry and Governor Romney each explained how their state was the best at job creation, Brady Cassis, who works with me, went back and checked.In the four years I was speaker, we created -- the American people, not me, created more jobs in Utah than under Governor Huntsman, more jobs in Massachusetts than under Governor Romney, and more jobs in Texas than in the 11 years of Governor Perry.Now, I don't claim credit for that, because it was done by investors and done by people -- in fact, Mitt at that time was in the private sector as part of the job creation. But I just want to point out the American people create jobs, not government. OK? (Cheers, applause.)Now, Ronald Reagan, when I -- when I was a very young congressman, Ronald Reagan taught me a great lesson if you have Democrats in charge. And that is to go to the American people on principle, have the American people educate their congressmen. He used to say: I try to turn up the light for the people so they will turn up the heat on Congress. When we passed welfare reform, half the people who -- half the Democrats voted yes because they couldn't go home having voted no.And on a principled basis, I'd be glad to work with Democrats in any office, but I'd do it on principle, not on compromising principles. (Applause.)MR. BLITZER: Thank you, Mr. Speaker.All right, we have a question via CNNpolitics.com: All of you profess to be pro-business candidates for president. Can you be pro- worker at the same time?Mr. Cain?MR. CAIN: The answer is absolutely yes, because I was a worker before I was an executive and before I was a business owner. Absolutely. And when I ran the National Restaurant Association -- it is a collection of small businesses. Godfather's Pizza is the same way -- when I ran a region for Burger King. One restaurant is the basic fundamental business unit in this country.And so, yes, I know how to be pro-worker, because I came from a pro-worker family. My mother was a domestic worker; my father was a barber, a janitor and a chauffeur, all at the same time.MOREI understand work because that's how I came up. So the answer is absolutely yes.The two are not mutually exclusive, but what we need is the right leadership, starting with are we working on the right problems. If we keep tinkering around the edges on the tax code or tinkering around the edges on Social Security, we're not going to solve the right problems. (Applause.)MR. BLITZER: Thank you, Mr. Cain.Governor Huntsman, you have experience in the business community and government. Why would you be more effective in creating jobs than any of your rivals on this stage?MR. HUNTSMAN: Well, let me just say about workers: This country needs more workers. Can we say that? This country needs more workers, and we're not going to get more workers until we actually have an economic plan led by someone who has actually done it before, presumably as a governor, to create the environment in which the private sector can work its magic. That's how we're going to get from point A to point B.But let me just say that we have put forward a plan, Wolf, and I want people to take a serious look at this because you can come up with spin on everything that -- any way to describe your plan, come up with fancy language, but I just want you to take a look at what we have done, where we have been in terms of proposing job-creation measures under tax reform in our state that is totally applicable to what this country needs: looking at regulatory reform, creating the most business-friendly environment in the entire United States, creating healthcare reform without a mandate.I know that everything is bigger in Texas, and Rick likes to talk that way, and I know all the smart people reside in Massachusetts, but let me just tell you: Utah -- the great state of Utah was number one in job creation at 5.9 percent during my years as governor. We were the best-managed state in America. We were the best place in America for business. I am the only person on this stage, Wolf, who can actually lay claim to all of that, and you know why it is important? It's because it is exactly what this country needs at this point in its history.MR. BLITZER: I will let everybody respond. We've got a lot more to talk about including national security -- it's a critical issue -- taxes, Federal Reserve, health care -- many more subjects coming up.Stay with us. Remember, go to Twitter or Facebook, cnnpolitics.com. We want to hear from you as well. Our special coverage of this historic CNN/tea party Republican presidential debate will continue after this. (Cheers, applause.)(Announcements.)(Cheers, applause.)MR. BLITZER: Welcome back to the CNN/tea party presidential debate. We're here in Tampa. Let's go right to a question from the audience. Please name your -- give us your name.Q: Good evening. I'm Steve Braudsong (sp) with the Tea Party of Greater Gaston County from Gastonia, North Carolina. My question tonight is what is your position on the Federal Reserve? Should it indeed be audited and be held accountable by the American people?MR. BLITZER: Senator Santorum.MR. SANTORUM: I agree with an audit of the Federal Reserve. I believe that what we should do with the Fed is to make it a single charter instead of a dual charter. I think the second charter that was instituted that had it be responsible for increasing employment and dealing with that leads to a fundamental distrust among the American people that they are taking their eye off the ball, which is sound money. They should be a sound-money Federal Reserve. That should be their single charter, and that is it.With respect to some of the questions that were asked in the last segment on the economy, I would just say this: Some people say that Barack Obama's economy is a disaster. My feeling is it would have to make a dramatic improvement just to be a disaster. (Laughter, applause.) The -- what -- what we need to do is have a pro-growth plan that can pass the Congress with Democratic support and, as Newt mentioned, be able to rally the American people. What the American people want is a policy that's going to get people the opportunity to rise in society, to fill that -- that great middle of America, and that is manufacturing jobs.That's why my plan takes the corporate tax, which is 35 percent, cuts it to 0, and says if you manufacture in America, you aren't going to pay any taxes. We want you to come back here. We want you to have "Made in America" stamped on your (plant -- plant ?). (Cheers, applause.)MR. BLITZER: Mr. Cain.MR. CAIN: Yes.MR. BLITZER: You were once with the Kansas City Federal Reserve. Should it be audited?MR. CAIN: Yes, it can -- it should be audited. And secondly, I believe that its focus needs to be narrowed. I don't believe in ending the Fed, I believe in fixing the Fed. For many, many decades the Fed did its job when it was singularly focused on sound money. When we wake up in the morning, we expect 60 minutes to be in an hour. Now when we wake up, because of some of the actions of the current Fed, we don't know what the value of the dollar's going to be. In 1988 it took 1.2 dollars in order to be able to convert from Canadian to U.S. It is now totally reversed because of the current policies of the Fed.MR. BLITZER: Thank you.Congresswoman Bachmann -- (applause) -- you know that Governor Perry has suggested that Ben Bernanke, the head of the Federal Reserve, potentially should be tried for treason for what he's doing. (Cheers, applause.) Do you agree?REP. BACHMANN: Well, as president of the United States, I would not be reappointing Ben Bernanke.But I want to say this. During the bailout, the $700 billion bailout, I worked behind the scenes against the bailout because one thing that I saw from the Federal Reserve -- the enabling act legislation is written so broadly that quite literally Congress has given the Federal Reserve almost unlimited power over the economy. That has to change. They can no longer have that power. Why? Because what we saw with all of the $700 billion bailout is that the Federal Reserve opened its discount window and was making loans to private American businesses, and not only that, they were making loans to foreign governments. This cannot be.The Federal Reserve has a lot to answer for, and that's why it's important that they're not only audited, but they have got to be shrunk back down to such a tight leash that they're going to squeak. (Cheers, applause.)MR. BLITZER: It's one thing to say you wouldn't reappoint him, Ben Bernanke, to be head of the Federal Reserve. It's another thing -- do you agree or disagree with Governor Perry that, potentially, he's engaged in treason?REP. BACHMANN: Well, that's for -- that's for Governor Perry to make that decision. Not -- my opinion is, I would not reappoint Ben Bernanke.MR. BLITZER: Do you stand by those remarks, good Governor?GOV. PERRY: I said that if you are allowing the Federal Reserve to be used for political purposes, that it would be almost treasonous. I think that is a very clear statement of fact. (Applause.)I am not a fan of the current chairman allowing that Federal Reserve to be used to cover up bad fiscal policy by this administration, and that, I will suggest to you, is what we have seen. It is a travesty that young people in America are seeing their dollars devalued in what -- we don't know if it was political or not, because of the transparency issue.But I stand by this: that we need to have a Fed that is working towards sound monetary policy that creates a strong dollar in America, and we do not have that today. (Applause.)MR. BLITZER: Governor Romney, is there anything you disagree with with Governor Perry on that point?MR. ROMNEY: Well, my own view is that -- quite simply, that the Federal Reserve has a responsibility to preserve the value of our currency, to have a strong American currency such that investors and people who are thinking about bringing enterprises to this country have confidence in the future of America and in our currency. People will not invest in this country and create jobs in this country for the American people if they don't have belief in our currency.Of course, we should see what the Fed is doing, and there should be some oversight to make sure that it's -- that it's acting properly. But at the same time, we recognize that we need to have a Fed.Why -- why do I say that? Because if we don't have a Fed, who's going to run the currency, Congress? I'm not in favor of that. I've rather have an agency that is being overseen rather than have the United States Congress try and manage our currency.MR. BLITZER: All right, let's take another question from the hall. Go ahead, and please identify yourself.Q: Hi, my name is Tyler Hensley (sp). I'm from Napa, California. My -- well, first of all, thank you guys for coming out tonight. My question is out of every dollar that I earn, how much do you think that I deserve to keep? (Cheers, applause.)Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.REP. BACHMANN: Oh, I love that question. I love that question.MR. BLITZER: Governor Huntsman.MR. HUNTSMAN: Well, I've come out with a tax program that basically simplifies, lowers, flattens the rate. Why? Because I did it as governor in the state of Utah. I believe that that experience means something. And I look at people who are earning, you in the workplace trying to make ends meet. You want to be given a competitive tax code. We need to clear out the cobwebs. We need to clear out the deductions, the loopholes, the corporate welfare and all the subsidies. And for you, you know, we leave it at 8 percent, 14 percent, 24 percent. Those are the three rates that I think would work on the individual income side.On the corporate side, I think we recognize the reality that a whole lot of companies can afford to have lobbyists and lawyers on Capitol Hill working their magic. Let's recognize the reality that they're not all paying 35 percent. We need to lower that to 25 percent. So let's phase out the corporate subsidies and clean out the cobwebs and leave it more competitive for the 21st century. I can tell you by doing that with our tax code -- and I know because we did it in a state that took us to the number one job creator in this country -- it will leave you and your generation a whole lot better off.But the thing that you all need to be worried about is the debt that is coming your way because we have a cancer that is eating away at the core of this country --MR. BLITZER: Thank you.MR. HUNTSMAN: -- called debt, and it's going to eat -- eat -- eat alive this country until your generation gets active in the 2012 election cycle and finds a leader who can address debt and growth. (Applause.)MR. BLITZER: Thank you, Governor.Speaker Gingrich, some of the biggest companies in the United States is the oil companies. They get, I guess, what some would call government handouts, in the form of tax breaks, tax exemptions, loopholes. They're making billions and billions of dollars. Is that fair?MR. GINGRICH: You know, I thought for a second you were going to refer to General Electric, which has paid no taxes. (Cheers, applause, boos.) I was -- I was astonished the other night, to have the president there in the joint session, with the head of GE sitting up there, the president talking about taking care of loopholes, and I thought to myself, doesn't he realize that every green tax credit is a loophole?AUDIENCE MEMBERS: Yeah! (Cheers, applause.)MR. GINGRICH: That everything he wants -- everything General Electric is doing is a loophole?Now, why did we get to breaks for ethanol, breaks for oil and gas, et cetera? We got to them because of this idea which the young man just represented. If we make it possible for you to keep more of your own money, you will do more of it.We have a simple choice. We can depend on Saudi Arabia, Iran, Iraq, Venezuela, or we can encourage development in the United States of manufacturing, as Rick said. We can encourage development of oil and gas. We can do it by saying we're going to let you keep more of your money if you create more of what we want. I'm for an energy- independent America, and that means I favor people who create energy. (Cheers, applause.)MR. BLITZER: But I did want to follow up, Mr. Speaker. If you eliminate some of those loopholes, those exemptions, whether for Exxon Mobil or GE or some other companies, there are those who argue that is in effect a tax increase and it would violate a pledge that so many Republicans have made not to raise taxes.MR. GINGRICH: Yes, a lot of people argue that. They're technically right, which is why I am -- look, I'm cheerfully opposed to raising taxes. In this government we have a problem of overspending, we don't have a problem of undertaxing. And I think that it would be good for us to say we're not going to raise any -- which is why I'm also in favor of keeping the current tax cut, for people who are working, on Social Security and Medicare.I think trying to raise the tax on working Americans in the middle of the Obama depression is a destructive policy -- (applause) -- so I don't want to have any tax increase at any level for anyone. I want to shrink government to fit income; not raise income to try to catch up with government. (Applause.)MR. BLITZER: All right, let's go to Cincinnati. (Applause.)We've got a question from Cincinnati. Go ahead.Q: (Cheers, applause.) Hello. My question is would any of you be willing to support the fair tax?MR. BLITZER: Governor Romney?A fair tax basically is a national sales tax.MR. ROMNEY: Yeah. The -- (cheers) -- the idea of a national sales tax or a consumption tax has a lot to go for it. One, it would make us more competitive globally as we send products around the world because under the provisions of the World Trade Organization, you can reimburse that to an exporter. We can't reimburse our taxes right now. It also would level the playing field in the country, making sure everybody is paying some part of their fair share.But the way the fair tax has been structured, it has a real problem, and that is it lowers the burden on the very highest income folks and the very lowest income folks, and raises it on middle-income people. And the people that have been hurt most by the Obama economy are the middle class. And so my plan is to take the middle-class individuals and dramatically reduce their taxes by the following measure, and that is for middle-income Americans, no tax on interest, dividends or capital gains. Let people save their money as -- the way they pick that is best for them, for their kids, for their future, for their retirement.We're taxing too much, we're spending too much, and middle-income Americans need a break. And I give it to them. (Applause.)MR. BLITZER: All right. We have another question from Portsmouth, Virginia. Go ahead.Q: My name is Linda Gunn.I'm from Portsmouth, Virginia. I'm part of the Virginia teapayers -- Taxpayers Alliance. My question has to do with executive orders. Under what circumstances should a president sign an executive order? And how frequently should such an order be signed?MR. BLITZER: Congressman Paul?REP. PAUL: The executive orders have been grossly abused by all administrations for a lot of years. (Cheers, applause.) But you can't -- but some executive orders are legal. When the president executes proper function of the presidency, like moving troops and other things, yes, it's done with an executive order. But the executive order should never be used to legislate. That is what is so bad. (Applause.)So the executive order should be taken under control, and I as -- I made a promise if -- as president, I would never use the executive order to legislate. (Applause.)MR. BLITZER: Governor Perry, as you well know, you signed an executive order requiring little girls, 11(-year-old) and 12-year-old girls, to get a vaccine to deal with a sexually transmitted disease that could lead to cervical cancer. Was that a mistake?GOV. PERRY: It was, indeed. (Applause.) I -- if I had it to do over again, I would have done it differently. I would have gone to the legislature, worked with them. But what was driving me was, obviously, making a difference about young people's lives. Cervical cancer is a horrible way to die. And I happen to think that what we were trying to do was to clearly send the message that we're going to give moms and dads the opportunity to make that decision with parental opt-out. Parental rights are very important in the state of Texas. We do it on a long list of vaccines that are made. But on that particular issue, I will tell you that I made a mistake by not going to the legislature first.Let me address Ron Paul just a minute by saying I will use an executive order to get rid of as much of "Obamacare" as I can on day one.(Cheers, applause.)MR. BLITZER: Congresswoman Bachmann, do you have a problem with anything that Governor Perry just said? You're a mom.REP. BACHMANN: I'm a mom, and I'm a mom of three children. And to have innocent little 12-year-old girls be forced to have a government injection through an executive order is just flat-out wrong. (Cheers, applause.) That should never be done. That's a violation of a liberty interest. That's -- little girls who have a negative reaction to this potentially dangerous drug don't get a mulligan. They don't get a do-over. The parents don't get a do-over. That's why I fought so hard in Washington, D.C., against President Obama and "Obamacare."President Obama, in a stunning, shocking level of power now just recently told all private insurance companies you must offer the morning-after abortion pill because I said so, and it must be free of charge. That same level coming through executive orders and through government dictates is wrong. (Cheers, applause.) And that's why, again, we have to have someone who is absolutely committed to the repeal of "Obamacare." And I am. I won't rest until it's repealed.MR. BLITZER: All right, let me let Governor Perry respond.Was what you signed into law, that vaccine for 11 to 12-year-old girls -- was that, as some of your critics have suggested, a mandate?GOV. PERRY: No, sir, it wasn't. It was very clear. It had an opt-out. And at the end of the day this was about trying to stop a cancer and giving the parental option to opt out of that. And at the end of the day -- you may criticize me about the way that I went about it, but at the day I am always going to err on the side of life. And that's what this was really all about for me. (Applause.)MR. BLITZER: Senator Santorum, go ahead.REP. BACHMANN: Can I -- can I add to that, Wolf? Can I add to that?MR. : (Inaudible) -- respond --MR. BLITZER: Go -- all right, hold on one second. First Congresswoman Bachmann, then Senator Santorum.REP. BACHMANN: I just wanted to add that we cannot forget that in the midst of this executive order, there was a big drug company that made millions of dollars because of this mandate. (Applause.) We can't -- we can't deny that.MR. BLITZER: So what are you suggesting?REP. BACHMANN: What I'm saying is that it's wrong for a drug company, because the governor's former chief of staff was the chief lobbyist for this drug company -- (applause) -- the drug company gave thousands of dollars in political donations to the governor, and this is just flat-out wrong.MR. BLITZER: All right.REP. BACHMANN: The question is, is it about life or was it about millions of dollars and potentially billions for a drug company?MR. : (Inaudible.)MR. BLITZER: All right. I'll let Senator Santorum hold off for a second. You've got to respond to that.GOV. PERRY: Yes, sir. The company was Merck, and it was a $5,000 contribution that I had received from them. I raise about $30 million, and if you're saying that I can be bought for 5,000 (dollars), I'm offended. (Applause.)REP. BACHMANN: Well, I'm -- I'm offended for all the little girls and the parents that didn't have a choice. (Cheers, applause.) That's what I'm offended for.MR. SANTORUM: Yeah, I -- I think we need to hear what Governor Perry's saying. He's saying that his policy was right. He believes that what he did was right. He thinks he went about it the wrong way.I believe your policy is wrong. (Applause.)AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah!MR. SANTORUM: Why -- ladies and gentlemen, why do we inoculate people with vaccines in public schools? Because we're afraid of those diseases being communicable between people at school. And therefore to protect the rest of the people at school, we have vaccinations toprotect those children. Unless Texas has a very progressive way of communicating diseases in their school by -- by way of their curriculum, then there is no government purpose served for having little girls inoculated at the force and -- and compulsion of the government. (Applause.) This is a big government run amok.AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah!MR. SANTORUM: It is bad policy and it should not have been done.(Cheers, applause, whistles.)MR. BLITZER: I'm going to move on, Governor Perry, unless you want to say anything else.GOV. PERRY: Look, I think we've made decisions in Texas. We've put a $3 billion effort in to find the cure for cancer. There are a lot of different cancers out there. Texas, I think, day in and day out is a place that protects life. I have passed parental notification pieces of legislation. I've been the most pro-life governor in the state of Texas. And what we were all about was trying to save young people's lives in Texas. (Applause.)MR. BLITZER: All right.REP. SANTORUM: Then give parents the opt-in as opposed to -- teach them, let them opt in, but do not force them to have this inoculation. (Applause.)MR. BLITZER: All right. Let's take a question from the audience. Give us your name, please.Q: It's Carolyn Taylor. I'm from Orange Park, Florida, with the People's Tea Party. My question is, health insurance is expensive because health care is expensive. What is your plan to reduce the cost of health care so that our insurance premiums and other related costs can also be reduced?MR. BLITZER: All right. Mr. Cain?MR. CAIN: First, repeal "Obamacare" in its entirety, and then -- (applause) -- secondly, pass market-driven, patient-centered reforms, such as under the current code, deductibility of health insurance premiums regardless of who pays for it, but as you know, I want to throw that out and put in my 999 plan.Secondly, the other thing that we can do in order to help bring down the cost is pass loser-pay laws. Doctors will tell you that one of their biggest expenses is medical liability insurance because of frivolous lawsuits.Secondly (sic), restructure Medicare, another big cost that's passed on to us as consumers related to all the bureaucracy associated with that.Another market-driven idea: allow association health plans. When I ran the National Restaurant Association, which today has 14 million employees, we wanted to design a system for health insurance that was going to be customized for our industry. We could not do that. We need to be allowed to do that, and so should other organizations and other associations. (Applause.)MR. BLITZER: Thank you, Mr. Cain.Governor Romney, a lot of the tea party supporters here and around the country have a real serious problem with the healthcare mandate that you got through in Massachusetts. Is there anything you want to say to them to revise or amend? Do you stand by what you did?MR. ROMNEY: Absolutely. Let me come back and just mention something. Herman Cain is right -- and let's come back to this getting the cost of health care down. I happen to think that's an enormous issue, and I agree with almost everything you said, Herman.The reason health care is so expensive -- I think you hit the nail on the head. You said it's not just because of insurance, it's because of the cost of providing care. And one reason for that is the person who receives care in America generally doesn't care how much it costs because once they've paid the deductible, it's free. And the provider -- the more they do, the more they get paid.We have something that's not working like a market; it's working like a government utility, and so what we have to do is make sure that individuals have a concern and care about how much something costs. And for that to happen, health savings accounts. Give people a stake in what the cost of insurance -- (applause) -- is going to be, what the cost of care is going to be. Coinsurance -- where people pay a share of the bill -- that makes a difference. (Applause.)With regards to "Massachusettscare," I'm not running for governor; I'm running for president. And if I'm president, on day one I'll direct the secretary of Health and Human Services to grant a waiver from "Obamacare" to all fifty states. It's a problem, it's bad law, it's unconstitutional; I'll get rid of it. (Applause.)MR. BLITZER: All right. Governor Perry, you are a firm believer in states' rights. Can a state like Massachusetts go ahead and pass healthcare reform, including mandates -- is that a good idea if Massachusetts wants to do it?GOV. PERRY: Well, that's what Governor Romney wanted to do, so that -- that's fine. But the fact of the matter is that was the plan that President Obama has said himself was the model for "Obamacare." And I -- I think any of us who know that that piece of legislation will draw a line between the doctor-patient relationship that will cost untold billions of dollars is not right for this country. And frankly, I don't think it was right for Massachusetts when you look at what it's costing the people of Massachusetts today. But at the end of the day that was their call. So from a just purely states get to decide what they want to do, I agree with that. And in the state of Texas, we don't think that's the way we want to go.REP. BACHMANN: Well, can I --MR. BLITZER: All right, I'm going to let you respond, but I want to -- Governor Romney to respond first.MR. ROMNEY: First, I'd be careful about trusting what President Obama says -- (chuckles) -- all right, as to what the source was of his plan, number one. (Applause.) But number two, if you think what we did in Massachusetts and what President Obama did are the same, boy, take a closer look because number one, he raised taxes $500 billion and helped slow down the U.S. economy by doing it. We didn't raise taxes. He cut Medicare by $500 billion. This, the Democrat president, the liberal, so to speak, cut Medicare -- not Republicans, the Democrat. We dealt with the people in our state that were uninsured, some 9 percent. His bill deals with a hundred percent of the people. He puts in place a panel that ultimately is going to tell people what kind of care they can have. We didn't do anything like that.What the president did was simply wrong. It is the wrong course for America. It is not what we did in Massachusetts. The people of Massachusetts favor our plan by 3 to 1, and states can make their own choices.MR. BLITZER: All right.MR. ROMNEY: I'm happy to stand up for what we did. But I'll tell you one thing: What he did is wrong for America, and I'll stop it.(Applause.)MR. BLITZER: Thank you, Governor.Before I get to Michele Bachmann, I want to just -- you're a physician, Ron Paul. So, you're a doctor; you know something about this subject. Let me ask you this hypothetical question: A healthy, 30-year-old young man has a good job, makes a good living, but decides: You know what? I'm not going to spend 200 (dollars) or $300 a month for health insurance, because I'm healthy; I don't need it. But you know, something terrible happens; all of a sudden, he needs it. Who's going to pay for it, if he goes into a coma, for example? Who pays for that?REP. PAUL: Well, in a society -- in a society that you accept welfarism and socialism, he expects the government to take care of him.MR. BLITZER: Well, what do you want?REP. PAUL: But what he should do is whatever he wants to do, and assume responsibility for himself. My advice to him would have a major medical policy, but not before --MR. BLITZER: But he doesn't have that. He doesn't have it and he's -- and he needs -- he needs intensive care for six months. Who pays?REP. PAUL: That's what freedom is all about: taking your own risks. (Cheers, applause.) This whole idea that you have to prepare and take care of everybody -- (applause) --MR. BLITZER: But Congressman, are you saying that society should just let him die?AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah!REP. PAUL: No --AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah!AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes! (Applause.)REP. PAUL: I practiced medicine before we had Medicaid, in the early 1960s when I got out of medical school. I practiced at SantaRosa Hospital in San Antonio. And the churches took care of them. We never turned anybody away from the hospitals. (Applause.)And we've given up on this whole concept that we might take care of ourselves and assume responsibility for ourselves, our neighbors, our friends; our churches would do it. This whole idea -- that's the reason the cost is so high. The cost is so high because we dump it on the government. It becomes a bureaucracy. It becomes special interests. It kowtows to the insurance companies, then the drug companies. Then on top of that, you have the inflation. The inflation devalues the dollar. We have lack of competition. There's no competition in medicine. Everybody's protected by licensing. We should actually legalize alternative health care, allow people to have -- practice what they want. (Cheers, applause.)MR. BLITZER: Congressman Bachmann, go ahead and weigh in on this hypothetical 30-year-old who needs six months of intensive care; has no insurance.REP. BACHMANN: Well, first of all, what I want to say, with all due respect to the governors, I've read this health care bill. I've been fighting this fight the last couple of years --MR. BLITZER: Which health care bill?REP. BACHMANN: President Obama's --MR. BLITZER: (Inaudible) -- health care.REP. BACHMANN: -- "Obamacare" bill. And waivers and executive orders won't cut it. If you could solve "Obamacare" with an executive order, any president could do it, and any president could undo it. That's now -- not how it can be done. Plus no state has the constitutional right to force a person, as a condition of citizenship, to buy a product or service against their will. (Applause.) It's unconstitutional, whether it's the state government or whether it's the federal government.The only way to eradicate "Obamacare" is to pull it out by the root and branch, to fully repeal it. It's the only way we're going to get rid of it.And this is why I'm running for the presidency of the United States, because 2012 is it.MR. BLITZER: All right --REP. BACHMANN: This is the election that's going to decide if we have socialized medicine in this country or not. This is it. Why? I just have to say this. It's because President Obama embedded $105,464,000,000 in "Obamacare" in postdated checks to implement this bill. We are never going to get rid of it unless we have a president committed to getting rid of it.MR. BLITZER: All right --REP. BACHMANN: And if you believe that states can have it and that it's constitutional, you're not committed. If you you've implemented this in your state, you're not committed. (Applause.) I'm committed to repealing "Obamacare." (Cheers, applause.)MR. BLITZER: Thank you. (Cheers, applause continue.)There is much, much more in this Republican presidential debate, the CNN/tea party debate. Stand by. We're taking another quick break. When we come back: national security, immigration and a lot more. (Cheers, applause.) We'll be right back.(Announcements.)(Cheers, applause.)MR. BLITZER: Welcome back to the CNN/tea party Republican presidential debate. We're here in Tampa, but we're taking questions from across the country. Let's go to Cincinnati. Please identify yourself and ask the question.(Cheers.)Q: Yes, what would you do -- what would you do to remove the illegal immigrants from our country? (Cheers, applause.)MR. BLITZER: Senator Santorum, maybe 11 (million), 12 million illegal immigrants in the United States. What would you do?MR. SANTORUM: I've said this from the very beginning. What -- I'm the son of a(n) Italian immigrant. (Applause.) I believe in immigration. I believe that immigration is an important part of the lifeblood of this country. But what we have is a problem of an unsecure border. Unlike Governor Perry, I believe we need to build more fence. I -- I believe that we need to secure the border using technology and more personnel. And until we build that border, we should neither have storm troopers come in and throw people out of the country, nor should we provide amnesty.What we should do is enforce the laws in this country with respect to employers, and we should secure the border. And then after the border is secured, then we can deal with the problem (sic) that are in this country.But I think it's very important that we understand and we explain to folks that immigration is an important lifeblood of this country, something that I strongly support and something that we have to do legally if we're going to have -- have respect for the law. (Applause.)MR. BLITZER: Governor Perry, he mentioned you, so go ahead.GOV. PERRY: Yes, sir. There's not anybody on this stage that's had to deal with the issue of border security more than I have, the 1,200 miles of Texas and Mexico. And our federal government has been an abject failure at securing our border. (Applause.) We've had to spend some $400 million of Texas taxpayer dollars to send Texas Ranger Recon Teams down there. Strategic fencing in the metropolitan areas absolutely has a role to play. But the idea that you're going to build a wall from Brownsville to El Paso and go left for another 800 miles to Tijuana is just not reality.What you have to have is boots on the ground. You've got to have 4,500 Border Patrol agents trained up, 1,500 National Guard troops. You've got to have the aviation assets in the air, putting real-time information down to the law enforcement. We understand and know how to secure that border, but we can't do it alone, and the federal government has to step up and do what their constitutional duty is, and that is to secure the order with Mexico. (Applause.)MR. BLITZER: Let me just take this quick question from Twitter, and then I want to stay on this subject. What are the candidates doing to attract the Latino voters? Go ahead, Senator Santorum.MR. SANTORUM: Well, I mean, what Senator Perry's done is he provided in-state tuition for illegal immigrants. Maybe that was an attempt to attract the legal -- I mean the Latino voters, but you attract Latino voters by talking about the importance of immigration in this country. You talk about the importance of -- as Newt has talked about for many years -- having English as the official language of this country.And I say that -- (cheers, applause) -- I say that as -- as, again, my -- my father and grandfather came to this country not speaking a word of English. But it was the greatest gift to my father to have to learn English so he could assimilate into our society. We are a melting pot, not a salad bowl, and we need to continue that tradition. (Laughs, cheers, applause.)MR. BLITZER: Governor Perry. I'm going to move on to Governor Huntsman in a second. But you did sign legislation giving some illegal immigrants in Texas the opportunity to have in-state tuition at universities in Texas.GOV. PERRY: In -- in --MR. BLITZER: Explain what that is.GOV. PERRY: In the state of Texas, if you've been in the state of Texas for three years, if you're working towards your -- your college degree, and if you are working and pursuing citizenship in the state of Texas, you pay in-state tuition there. And the bottom line is it doesn't make any difference what the sound of your last name is. That is the American way -- no matter how you got into that state, from the standpoint if your parents brought you there or what have you. (Boos.) And that's what we've done in the state of Texas, and I'm proud that we are having those individuals be contributing members of our society rather than telling them, you go be on the government dole.MR. BLITZER: You heard some boos there. But go ahead, Congresswoman Bachmann. Is that basically the DREAM Act that President Obama wants as well?REP. BACHMANN: Yes, it's very similar. And I think that the American way is not to give taxpayer-subsidized benefits to people who have broken our laws or are here in the United States illegally. That is not the American way. (Cheers, applause.)Because the immigration system in the United States worked very, very well up until the mid-1960s, when -- when liberal members of Congress changed the immigration laws. What works is that people come into the United States with a little bit of money in their pocket, legally, with sponsors, so that if anything happens to them they don't fall back on the taxpayers to take care of them. And then they also have to agree to -- (cheers, applause) -- to learn to speak the English language, learn American history and our Constitution.That's the American way. (Cheers, applause.)MR. BLITZER: All right.I'm going to bring Governor Huntsman in, but go ahead, Governor Perry.GOV. PERRY: I'm not -- I'm not for the Dream Act that they are talking about in Washington, D.C. That is amnesty. What we did in the state of Texas was clearly a states' right (sic) issue. And the legislature passed with only four dissenting votes in the House and the Senate to allow this to occur. We were clearly sending a message to young people regardless of what the sound of their last name is that we believe in you, that if you want to live in the state of Texas and you want to pursue citizenship that we're going to allow you the opportunity to be contributing members in the state of Texas and not be a drag on our state.MR. BLITZER: All right. I'm going to get everybody in.Hold on a second.Governor Huntsman, you also signed legislation in Utah that gave driving privileges to illegal immigrants. Was that a good idea?MR. HUNTSMAN: Well, first of all, let me -- let me say for Rick to say that you can't secure the border I think is pretty much a treasonous comment.AUDIENCE MEMBERS: Oooh!MR. : I didn't hear that. Did you hear that?MR. HUNTSMAN: Rick, you know, we can -- we can secure the border. We can secure the border through means of fences, through technology, through the deployment of our National Guard troops. We can -- we can get it done. In fact, when elected president of the United States, I would work with you and the other three border governors to ensure that through your law enforcement officials, you can verify that that border is secure.But I will tell you before -- well, to your direct question, they were given a driver's license before, and they were using that for identification purposes. And I thought that was wrong. Instead, weissued a driver privilege card, which, in our state, allowed our economy to continue to function. And it said in very bold letters, "Not to be used for identification purposes." It was a pragmatic, local-government-driven fix, and it proved that the 10th Amendment works. We believe in local fixes and solutions.MR. BLITZER: All right. Governor Romney, do you have a problem with either what Governor Huntsman did in Utah or Governor Perry did in Texas?MR. ROMNEY: Yeah, we both actually -- the question began by saying, how do we attract Latino voters, and the answer is by telling them what they know in their heart, which is they or their ancestors did not come here for a handout. If they came for a handout, they'd be voting for Democrats; if they -- (applause) -- came here for opportunity and freedom -- and that's what we represent, and that's why we will win in collecting support from Latinos across the country.With regards to illegal immigration, of course we'd build a fence, and of course we do not give in-state tuition credits to people who've come here illegally. (Applause.) That only attracts people to continue to come here to take advantage of America's great beneficence.And with regards to giving driver's licenses to people that are here illegally -- again that creates a patina of legal status. There are santuary cities in some parts of the country.One of the things I did in my state was to say, look, I'm going to get my state police authorized to be able to enforce immigration laws and make sure those people who we arrest are put in jail, then find out if they're here illegally. We're going to get them out of here. (Applause.)We have to recognize that this is the party that believes in supporting the law. We're going to enforce the law.We are the party of opportunity; we're also the party of legal, law-abiding citizens, and that's something -- we're going to attract people of all backgrounds.MR. BLITZER: (Inaudible) -- go ahead.GOV. PERRY: Well, as I said earlier, we -- we basically had a decision to make: Are we going to give people an incentive to be contributing members of this society, or are we going to tell them, no, we're going to put you on the government dole?In the state of Texas -- and this is a states-right issue -- if in Massachusetts you didn't want to do that, or in Utah you didn't want to do that, that's fine. But in the state of Texas, where Mexico has a clear and a long relationship with this state, we decided it was in the best interest of those young people to give them the opportunity to go on to college and to have the opportunity therepursuing citizenship in this country, rather than saying, you know, we're going to put you over here and put you on the government dole for the rest of your life.We don't think that was the right thing to do. And it's working, and it's working well in the state of Texas.MR. BLITZER: I know you want to respond to it, because he said that what you did in Utah was a mistake, giving driving privileges to illegal immigrants.MR. HUNTSMAN: I do. We can spend all night talking about where Mitt's been on all the issues of the day, and that would take forever. (Laughter.) But let me just say that all the -- (applause) -- all the Latino voters -- Hispanic voters want is opportunity. Can we say that? The greatest thing that we can do for the people in this country is -- on illegal immigration, is fix homeland security.I mean, when are we going to have an honest conversation in this country about the root causes? We can't process people. The H1B visa process is broken. We need to bring in brain power to this country to shore up our economic might. We need to bring in foreign capital to raise real estate prices, as well. We need a fixed Department of Homeland Security.MR. BLITZER: Thank you, Governor.All right, let's take a question from Phoenix. Go ahead, Phoenix. Give us your name. (Cheers, applause.)Q: The United States has an abundance of coal, oil, natural gas and uranium. The American people have been told for decades that energy independence is a top priority. What will you do in your first 100 days in office to assure the American people that energy independence will finally become reality? (Applause.)MR. BLITZER: Mr. Cain?MR. CAIN: The first thing that I would do in order to assure that we get on the road to energy independence -- and I do believe that we can, because we do have the natural resources to do so -- we've got to remove some of those barriers out of the way that are being created by the federal government. I would start with an EPA that's gone wild. (Cheers, applause.) That's where we start.I would put together a regulatory reduction commission.MOREFor every agency, starting with the EPA, this Regulatory Reduction Commission -- one of my guiding principles is, if you want to solve a problem, go to the source closest to the problem. So the people that I would appoint to that commission will be people who have been abused by the EPA. That would be the commission to straighten out the regulatory burden. (Cheers, applause.)MR. BLITZER: Let's take a question from Twitter."Do you plan to decrease defense spending to balance spending, or do you believe high spending is essential to security?"Speaker Gingrich.MR. GINGRICH: I think we are at the edge of an enormous crisis in national security. I think that we are greatly underestimating the threat to this country. And I think the day after we've celebrated the 10th anniversary of 9/11 we should be reminded exactly what is at stake if a foreign terrorist gets a nuclear weapon into this country.We have failed for a decade to deal with North Korea. We have failed for a decade to deal with Iran. The developments in Egypt and Turkey are much more dangerous than anybody is looking at in this country. And I think we need, frankly, to ask for a very serious national dialogue.I'd like to see both the House and Senate right now holding hearings on three levels of security. What do you do in Mexico, where there's a civil war under way next door to us? What do you do in the Middle East, where we have totally underestimated the scale of the threat? And what do you do about our national domestic industrial base, which is crucial if we've going to be competitive with China? All three of those are a major threat to us?MR. BLITZER: Congressman Paul. (Applause.)REP. PAUL: First thing I would like to do is make sure there -- that you understand there's a difference between military spending and defense spending. I'm tired of all the militarism that we are involved in, and we're wasting this money in getting us involved. And I agree, we are still in danger, but most of the danger comes by our lack of wisdom on how we run our foreign policy.MORESo I would say there's a lot of room to cut on the military, but not on the defense. You can slash the military spending. We don't need to be building airplanes that were used in World War II. We're always fighting the last war.We're under grave threats because we occupy so many countries. We're in 130 country -- we have 900 bases around the world. We're going broke.The purpose of al-Qaida was to attack us, invite us over there, where they can target us. And they have been doing it. They have more attacks against us and the American interests per month than occurred in all the years before 9/11. But we're there, occupying their land. And if we think that we can do that and not have retaliation, we're kidding ourselves. We have to be honest with ourselves. What would we do if another country, say China, did to us what we do to all those countries over there? (Applause.)So I would say a policy -- a national -- a foreign policy that takes care of our national defense, that -- we're willing to get along with people and trade with people, as the Founders advised. (Applause.) There's no authority in the Constitution to be the policeman of the world, and no nation building. Just remember, George Bush won the presidency on that platform in the year 2000, and I still think it's a good platform.MR. BLITZER: All right. Let me let Senator Santorum respond -- (applause) -- because I know you strongly disagree.MR. SANTORUM: On your -- on your website on 9/11 you had a blog post that said -- that basically blamed the United States for 9/11, on your website, yesterday. You said that it was our actions that brought about the actions of 9/11.Now, Congressman Paul, that is irresponsible. A president of the United States, running for -- someone who's running for the president of the United States in the Republican Party -- (applause) -- should not be parroting what Osama bin Laden said on 9/11. We should have -- we -- we are -- we are not being -- we are not being attacked and we were not attacked because of our actions.We were attacked, as Newt talked about, because we have a -- we have a civilization that is antithetical to the civilization of the jihadists. And they want to kill us because of who we are and what we stand for. And we stand for American exceptionalism. (Applause.) We stand for freedom and opportunity for everybody around the world. And I am not ashamed to do that. (Applause.)MR. BLITZER: Thirty seconds, Mr. Paul.REP. PAUL: As long as this country follows that idea, we're going to be under a lot of -- a lot of danger. This whole idea that the whole Muslim world is responsible for this and they're attacking us because we're free and prosperous, that is just not true. (Applause.) Osama bin Laden and al-Qaida have been explicit -- (boos) -- they have been explicit, and they wrote and said -- (boos) -- that we attacked -- we attacked America because you had bases on our holy land in Saudi Arabia, you do not give Palestinians a fair treatment, and you have been bombing -- (boos) -- I didn't say that; I'm trying to get you to understand what the motive was behind the bombing. At the same time, we had been bombing and killing hundreds of thousands of Iraqis for 10 years. Would you be annoyed? If you're not annoyed, then there's some problem. (Cheers, applause, boos.)MR. BLITZER: Thank you, Congressman.All right, we're going to stay on this subject. We have a question from the audience. Go ahead. Please identify yourself.Q: Hi. My name is Sahar Hekmati. I was brought here by Ronald Reagan. I am from Afghanistan. And my question to you is, as the next president of the United States, what will you do to secure safety and protection for the women and the children of Afghanistan from the radicals. (Applause.)MR. BLITZER: Governor Huntsman.MR. HUNTSMAN: We are -- we are 10 years into this war, Sahar. America has given its all in Afghanistan. We have families who have given the ultimate sacrifice, and it's to them that we offer our heartfelt salute and a deep sense of gratitude.But the time has come for us to get out of Afghanistan. (Cheers, applause.) We don't need a hundred thousand troops in Afghanistan nation-building at a time when this nation needs to be built. (Cheers, applause.) We are of no value to the rest of the world if our core is crumbling, which it is in this country.I liked those days when the Ronald Reagan you talked about -- when Ronald Reagan would ensure that the light of this country would shine brightly for liberty, democracy, human rights and free markets. We're not shining like we used to shine. We need to shine again. And I'm here to tell you, Sahar (ph), when we start shining again, it's going to help the women of Afghanistan along with any other NGO work that can be done there and the collaborative efforts of great volunteer efforts here in the United States. We can get it done, but we have to make sure that the Afghan people increasingly take responsibility for their security going forward. (Cheers, applause.)MR. BLITZER: Very quickly to Governor Perry. Two billion dollars a week: Is that money well spent by U.S. taxpayers in Afghanistan?GOV. PERRY: Well, I agree with Governor Huntsman when we talk about it's time to bring our young men and women home as soon and as -- and -- and -- and obviously safely as we can. But it's also really important for us to continue to have a presence there. And I think that the entire conversation about how do we deliver our aid to those countries -- and is it best spent with a hundred thousand military who have their target on their back in Afghanistan? I don't think so at this particular point in time. I think the best way for us to be able to impact that country is to make a transition to where that country's military is going to be taking care of their people. Bring our young men and women home, and continue to help them build the infrastructure that they need, whether it's schools for young women like yourself or otherwise.MR. BLITZER: Thank you, Governor.All right, we're going to take another quick break. When we come back, here's what we're going to do: You're going to get to know these candidates a little bit better. When we come back, what would they add to the White House if they were to move in?We'll be right back. (Cheers, applause.)(Announcements.)MR. BLITZER: Eight Republican presidential candidates on the stage. You know, Americans are looking at you. They also want to know a little bit more about you.I'm going to start with Senator Santorum. I want to go down and get your thoughts on something you would bring to the White House if you were the next president of the United States. As an example, President George H.W. Bush put in a horseshoe pit. President Clinton put in a jogging track. President Obama added a vegetable garden. Senator Santorum, if you're president, what will you bring to the White House?MR. SANTORUM: Well, mine's pretty obvious. Karen and I have seven children, so we'd add a bedroom or a -- (laughs) -- or -- and some beds to the White House. (Laughter.)MR. BLITZER: Speaker Gingrich.MR. GINGRICH: Well, first of all, I would reduce the White House by kicking out all of the White House czars the first day, creating a lot more space. (Cheers, applause.)And then, because of Callista's interest, we'd have a lot more music; because of my granddaughter Maggie, we'd have ballet; and because of my grandson Robert, we'd have a very large chess set. So it would all come together.MR. BLITZER: Congressman Paul?REP. PAUL: I'd bring a bushel basket full of common sense -- (laughter) -- and I would also bring a course in (Austrian ?) economics -- (cheers, applause) -- to teach the people the business cycle and why the Fed creates inflation and depressions and all our unemployment problems.MR. BLITZER: Governor Perry.GOV. PERRY: It's simple. I'm going to bring the most beautiful, most thoughtful, incredible first lady that this country's ever seen: Anita. (Applause.)MR. BLITZER: Governor Romney.MR. ROMNEY: You know, one of my -- one of my heroes was a man who had an extraordinary turn of phrase. He once said about us -- he said, you know, you can count on the Americans to get things right -- after they've exhausted all the alternatives. (Chuckles.) And now and then, we've made a couple of mistakes, but we're quite a -- quite a nation. And this man, Winston Churchill, used to have his bust in the Oval Office, and if I'm president of the United States, it'll be there again. (Cheers, applause.)MR. BLITZER: Congresswoman Bachmann.REP. BACHMANN: I would bring a copy of the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution of the United States and the Bill of Rights -- (cheers, applause) -- and that's it.MR. BLITZER: Mr. Cain.MR. CAIN: I would bring a sense of humor to the White House, because America's too uptight. (Laughter, applause.)MR. BLITZER: And Governor Huntsman.MR. HUNTSMAN: And to play to that theme, my wife's going to kill me for saying this, but I would bring my -- as a 40-year motorcyclerider, I would bring my Harley Davidson and my motorcross bike. (Applause.)MR. BLITZER: Ladies and gentlemen, the eight Republican presidential candidates. (Cheers, applause.)MR. : (Off mic.)MR. BLITZER: (I've had worse ?).And that's all the time we have. Ladies and gentlemen, please give a hand to our candidates for the Republican nomination for president of the United States. (Cheers, whistles, applause.)We want to thank our partners, the Tea Party Express, and 150 tea party groups from around the country.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementThey took their places in the wood-paneled courtroom, 58 people from 32 countries. They listened as a federal magistrate banged the gavel and said it was “a wonderful day for the United States”— the day they would become Americans.The magistrate talked about Thomas Jefferson and told the group that they could run for office — only the presidency and the vice presidency were off limits, according to a tape recording of the proceedings in a Bridgeport, Conn., courtroom last year, on April 17. On her instructions, they raised their right hands and repeated the oath of citizenship.He had obtained citizenship through marriage to a woman who was born in Colorado — the authorities say she and their two young children are still in Pakistan, where they believe he was trained in making bombs last year in Waziristan, a tribal area that is a haven for militants.AdvertisementOn Saturday, the authorities said, Mr. Shahzad drove a Nissan Pathfinder packed with explosives and detonators, leaving it in Times Square.AdvertisementAbout 7 p.m., as a robot from the bomb squad was being summoned to the S.U.V., Mr. Shahzad called his landlord from the train to Connecticut and said he had lost his keys; in a criminal complaint filed on Tuesday, the authorities said the keys had been locked inside the Pathfinder.The landlord met him at the apartment that night to let him in. “He looked nervous,” said the landlord, Stanislaw Chomiak, who had rented him a two-bedroom apartment in Bridgeport since Feb. 15. “But I thought, of course he’s nervous, he just lost his keys.”His neighbors in Connecticut said the things neighbors always say about someone who suddenly turns up in the headlines — he was quiet, he was polite, he went jogging late at night. Like so many others, he lost a house to foreclosure — a real estate broker who helped him buy the house, in Shelton, Conn., in 2004 remembered that Mr. Shahzad did not like President George W. Bush or the Iraq war.“I didn’t take it for much,” said the broker, Igor Djuric, “because around that time not many people did.”George LaMonica, a 35-year-old computer consultant, said he bought his two-bedroom condominium in Norwalk, Conn., from Mr. Shahzad for $261,000 in May 2004. A few weeks after he moved in, Mr. LaMonica said, investigators from the national Joint Terrorism Task Force interviewed him, asking for details of the transaction and for information about Mr. Shahzad. It struck Mr. LaMonica as unusual, but he said detectives told him they were simply “checking everything out.”Mr. Shahzad was born in Pakistan in 1979, though there is some confusion over where. Officials in Pakistan said it was in Nowshera, an area in northern Pakistan known for its Afghan refugee camps. But on a university application that Mr. Shahzad had filled out and that was found in the maggot-covered garbage outside the Shelton house on Tuesday, he listed Karachi.AdvertisementPakistani officials said Mr. Shahzad was either a son or a grandson of Baharul Haq, who retired as a vice air marshal in 1992 and then joined the Civil Aviation Authority.A Pakistani official said Mr. Shahzad might have had affiliations with Ilyas Kashmiri, a militant linked to Al Qaeda who was formerly associated with Lashkar-e-Taiba, an anti-India militant group once nurtured by the Pakistani state. But friends said the family was well respected and nonpolitical.“Neither Faisal nor his family has ever had any links with any jihadist or religious organization,” one friend said. Another, a lawyer, said that “the family is in a state of shock,” adding, “They believe that their son has been implicated in a fake case.”Mr. Shahzad apparently went back and forth to Pakistan often, returning most recently in February after what he said was five months visiting his family, prosecutors said. A Pakistani intelligence official who spoke on condition of anonymity said Mr. Shahzad had traveled with three passports, two from Pakistan and one from the United States; he last secured a Pakistani passport in 2000, describing his nationality as “Kashmiri.”Mr. Shahzad’s generation grew up in a Pakistan where alcohol had been banned and Islam had been forced into schools and communities as a doctrine and a national glue.“It’s not that they don’t speak English or aren’t skilled,” a Pakistani official explained. “But in their hearts and in their minds they reject the West. They can’t see a world where they live together; there’s only one way, one right way.”According to immigration officials, Mr. Shahzad arrived in the United States on Jan. 16, 1999, less than a month after he had been granted a student visa, which requires a criminal background check.He had previously attended a program in Karachi affiliated with the now-defunct Southeastern University in Washington; a transcript from the spring of 1998, found in the garbage outside the Shelton house, showed that he got D’s in English composition and microeconomics, B’s in Introduction to Accounting and Introduction to Humanities, and a C in statistics.AdvertisementHe enrolled at the University of Bridgeport, where he received a bachelor’s degree in computer science and engineering in 2000, followed by a master’s in business administration in 2005.“If this hadn’t happened I would have long forgotten him,” said William Greenspan, Mr. Shahzad’s adviser as an undergraduate. “There are a lot of students you get to know; they call you up once in awhile to say hello, they got a nice job. After he left U.B., I never heard anything from him.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In January 2002 Mr. Shahzad obtained an H1B visa, a coveted status meant for highly skilled workers and good for three years, with a possible extension. Records show that Elizabeth Arden, the cosmetics giant, applied for a visa for Mr. Shahzad; he worked there as a temporary clerk in the accounting department in 2001, through an employment agency called Accountants Inc., according to a timecard found in his trash.Officials at the cosmetic company confirmed that they hired Mr. Shahzad to work in the accounting department at the Stamford, Conn., office on Jan. 31, 2002; he left on June 14, 2006 to join another company.  In 2006, Mr. Shahzad took a job as a junior financial analyst at Affinion Group in Norwalk, a financial marketing services company. Michael Bush, the company’s director of public relations, said Mr. Shahzad resigned in mid-2009; government officials said he was unemployed and bankrupt by the time of his arrest.After his marriage, to Huma Mian, he petitioned the immigration agency in 2004 to change his status; he wanted to become a permanent resident, another step on the path to citizenship.Ms. Mian had just graduated from the University of Colorado at Boulder with a business degree, according to Bronson Hilliard, a university spokesman. She lived in dormitories and in family housing, sharing her quarters with a sister or a cousin, Mr. Hilliard said.Her parents lived in the Denver suburb of Aurora. A neighbor in their condominium complex, Johnny Wright, remembered that her new husband had visited the family only once before she joined him.“He seemed educated,” Mr. Wright said. “Didn’t make a lot of conversation.”The Mians moved out in 2008, leaving a post office box overseas as a forwarding address. Meanwhile, Mr. Shahzad applied for citizenship that October.Shortly after his naturalization ceremony in the Bridgeport courthouse, his name appeared on a case in another Connecticut court, a foreclosure action by Chase bank.AdvertisementHe and his wife had bought a newly built single-family house on Long Hill Avenue in Shelton in 2004 for $273,000, with a $218,400 mortgage, according to court papers.They tried to cash in on the real estate boom, listing it for sale for $329,000 in 2006. It did not sell, said Frank DelVecchio, an agent who picked up the listing in 2008. The price then was $299,000. Later it was marked down to $285,000, and finally, $284,500.In Shelton, neighbors remembered Mr. Shahzad’s walking early in the morning in sandals and loose-fitting shirts, and jogging late at night in black athletic clothes; his wife wore a long dress and a shawl covering her hair. They had toys in their garage and a little swimming pool in the back; last summer, friends went over for barbecues.“He wasn’t unfriendly,” said Debbie Bussolari, a 55-year-old dental technician who lives across the street. “He seemed a little different.”The family had several tag sales last summer, offering knickknacks and kid stuff, “things that you would give to Goodwill,” said Mary Ann Galich, 55, who lives behind the house.“She was outside dealing with the people, and he was dealing with the money,” Ms. Galich recalled.Davon Reid, 17, who lives next door, said the family moved in December: “It seemed like they picked up everything very quickly.” A few months later, a real estate broker let him in to check the place out, and it was a wreck.“There was spoiled food and milk everywhere,” he said. “They just left everything. They left clothes in closets, the kids’ shoes, the woman’s shoes. And the kids’ toys.”AdvertisementThree months ago, Mr. Shahzad signed a one-year lease on the two-bedroom apartment in Bridgeport. Mr. Chomiak, the landlord, said he usually saw Mr. Shahzad only when the rent was due, but he described him as a nice guy who furnished the apartment sparsely, and said he made a living selling jewelry in New Haven.Other details took on significance in light of the arrest. When Mr. Chomiak went looking for Mr. Shahzad on Monday, he noticed a distributor cap and two small bags of fertilizer in the garage.Mr. Shahzad, Mr. Chomiak said, mentioned that he wanted to grow tomatoes.An earlier version of this article contained an incorrect attribution for the date of Mr. Shahzad's arrival in the United States. It also said that Mr. Shahzad petitioned the immigration agency to change his status in 2004, when in fact his wife did so in 2005.Reporting was contributed by Nina Bernstein and Alison Leigh Cowan from New York, and Ray Rivera and Karen Zraick from Connecticut.Go to Home Page »The search numbers, which Google has collected since 2001, illustrate Americans’ anxieties, passions and, most notably this year, how big  government programs inspired intense curiosity.Democrats seem to attract more online interest than Republicans. Indeed, the numbers suggest that there is greater confusion — or curiosity — over what constitutes a Democrat. In each of the last five years, “democrat” is consistently more searched than “republican.” Not surprisingly Googlers query both parties most during November of election years, most dramatically so after Republicans took their “thumpin’” in the 2006 midterms.Among the Google searches:All Eyes on the Senate1. Kennedy (Edward), 2. Nelson (Bill), 3. Boxer (Barbara), 4. Feinstein (Diane), 5.Reid (Harry), 6. Byrd (Richard), 7.Dodd (Chris), 8. Schumer (Charles), 9. Grassley (Charles), 10. Warner (Mark)The latest on President Obama, Congress and other political news from Washington -- and around the nation -- from the staff of The New York Times.FollowAdvertisementAdvertisementNEW YORK — With the Obama administration promising a reform of the conspicuously ineffectual U.S. immigration laws, some attention might be paid to the scene at the venerable Cooper Union, the 150-year-old institution for the teaching of art, architecture and engineering in New York.  And the first element to note about that scene is that perhaps half of the students in engineering are Asian, with a quarter to a third of them foreign born.In fact that shouldn’t really be a surprise, given that Cooper Union is in the heart of New York City, home to an astounding three million foreign-born people, ranging from undocumented aliens from Fujian Province in China to engineers from Mumbai  busily earning their first hundred million.But it’s become almost a fashionable parlor game among those who favor immigration — and I am one of them — to cite the scenes from American life demonstrating the extraordinary ability of many new arrivals to clamber up the ladder of American social mobility:  The numbers of Koreans at the elite Juilliard School of Music, the numbers of Chinese and Vietnamese in the entering class each year at Harvard, the enormous presence of Indians in high technology.Indeed, concerning the last of these frequently mentioned examples, The New York Times the other day reported a statistic:  Half of the engineers working in Silicon Valley, that Grand Central Station of innovation and wealth creation in California, are foreign born.  Half!AdvertisementThat statistic comes from research done by Vivek Wadhwa, an immigrant himself,  from New Delhi, who is an adjunct professor at the Pratt School of Engineering at Duke University and a fellow at the Labor and Worklife Program at Harvard Law School.  To measure the presence of foreigners in such areas as information technology, Mr. Wadhwa organized his students to call 2,054 start-up technology companies across the country and ask whether their chief executives or their chief technologists were foreigners.Advertisement“The results are absolutely stunning,” Mr. Wadhwa said in a telephone interview.  In Silicon Valley, 52.4 percent of the companies polled had a chief executive or a chief engineer born abroad.  In New York, the figure among start-up companies was only  slightly less, 44 percent.And so, the obvious question:  Why in this country of 260 million non-immigrants is there such a large representation of the foreign-born in cutting-edge locales like Silicon Valley?One frequently heard explanation is that the American educational system is no longer up to snuff.  Or, as Craig R. Barrett, the chief executive of Intel, put it rather alarmingly to The New York Times, the lackluster American education system is at the root of nothing less than “the decline and fall of the United States as an economic power.”Given the widespread reports that this country lags far behind many others in math and science, Mr. Barrett’s argument has credibility.  And yet, research done on this question doesn’t support the notion that the schools here fail to produce qualified people.Studies done by Lindsay Lowell and others at the Georgetown University Institute for the Study of International Migration indicate that the American system produces several times as many qualified scientists and engineers each year as there are jobs available for them.  To be sure, many of the students graduating each year are foreigners, but those students are here precisely because the educational possibilities at the top of the American spectrum are still arguably the best in the world.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Well then, perhaps it’s the character of the immigrants themselves that explains their disproportionate presence among the entrepreneurs and innovators of American high tech.“It’s a willingness to do the hard stuff,” said Fred Siegel, a specialist on urban history at Cooper Union.  “Do I have proof of that?  No.  But it’s my strong impression.  On the engineering side, the kids work really hard if they’re first generation.”Mr. Wadhwa believes that his findings  support that view.“The tech boom brought highly skilled workers especially from India and China, and when you come to America, you fall in love with it,” he said.  “I know, because I was one of them.  When you come here you’re at the bottom of the social ladder.  You’re starting from scratch.  You forget about the risk.  You feel you’ve got nothing to lose.  But being in America after a generation or so, you become complacent.”AdvertisementThe anecdotal evidence — all those Asian pianists and violinists at Juilliard, the founders of Yahoo and Google born in Taiwan and Russia, respectively — suggest that’s there’s truth in Mr. Wadhwa’s statement.  And yet, while not disagreeing that the United States offers fantastic opportunities to newcomers, scholars like Mr. Lowell say the view of Mr. Wadhwa and others is, as Mr. Lowell put it, “an oversimplification. ”“When you’re talking about foreigners in Silicon Valley, in terms of recent entrepreneurs, you’re largely talking about Indians,” he said, not about immigrants in general, and many Indians come from a cultural milieu that makes a place like Silicon Valley especially congenial.“They speak English; they’ve been to college,” Mr. Lowell said.  “They come out of the legacy of British colleges and Indian engineering schools built by Jawaharlal Nehru,” India’s first post-independence prime minister.  Mr. Lowell also surmises that what he calls a “virtuous cycle” is in operation here, wherein Indians already in high technology companies have a cultural affinity for newly arrived Indians, who find a welcome in Silicon Valley, so that being an engineer or entrepreneur in Silicon Valley becomes an attribute of the educated Indian immigrant subculture.But still different reasons are given to explain the foreign presence, among them that immigrant engineers are hired for the simple reason that they do the same jobs as native-born engineers for less money, and research by Mr. Lowell and others shows that this, too, is true. Indeed, citing exactly that fact, some advocates for American workers are demanding that the government abolish the special visa, known as the H1B, that’s given to foreigners with special qualifications, arguing that these workers are under-pricing Americans.And yet it seems unlikely that the salary differential, which is not huge, accounts for the overproportion of foreigners in Silicon Valley.  Indeed, in the end no explanation for this phenomenon seems entirely satisfactory,  which may simply mean that all the explanations are at least partially true.But whatever the explanation, the astounding contribution of the foreign-born in creating new technologies and new companies to market them can’t be denied.  It’s like those Asian students studying engineering at Cooper Union.  You have to wish them well and you have to want them to stay.Go to Home Page »SAN JOSE—In yet another sign of his pivoting toward the general election, Senator John McCain said at a roundtable with business leaders here today that comprehensive immigration reform should be a top priority for the next president.Mr. McCain’s willingness to address the issue was striking given how the topic became something of a third-rail for Republican presidential candidates during the primary.When Mr. McCain’s presidential bid stalled last summer, many blamed his advocacy for the immigration reform bill in the Senate, which included a pathway to citizenship for the illegal immigrants already here in the country.Since he became the presumptive Republican nominee, Mr. McCain has given major speeches on a broad range of issues but has not given one on immigration.He found a friendly audience, however, here today at a business roundtable held at a Silicon Valley technology firm that included Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, Meg Whitman, the former chief executive officer of eBay who was a leading supporter of Mitt Romney’s but has since begun raising money for Mr. McCain, and a host of executives from Silicon Valley firms.After several of the business leaders complained about the difficulty in obtaining temporary H1B visas for scientists and engineers, something the Senate immigration bill was supposed to address, Mr. McCain expressed regret the measure did not pass, calling it a personal “failure,” as well as one by the federal government.“Senator Kennedy and I tried very hard to get immigration reform, a comprehensive plan, through the Congress of the United States,” he said. “It is a federal responsibility and because of our failure as a federal obligation, we’re seeing all these various conflicts and problems throughout our nation as different towns, cities, counties, whatever they are, implement different policies and different programs which makes things even worse and even more confusing.”He added: “I believe we have to secure our borders, and I think most Americans agree with that, because it’s a matter of national security. But we must enact comprehensive immigration reform. We must make it a top agenda item if we don’t do it before, and we probably won’t, a little straight talk, as of January 2009.”Mr. McCain asked others on the panels for suggestions about how to “better mobilize American public opinion” behind the notion of comprehensive immigration reform.Mr. Schwarzenegger, a strong supporter of immigration reform, chimed in, saying the effort could not be accomplished “piecemeal” and called for lawmakers to summon the “courage to go forward.”“I think all of us have to keep that pressure on Congress,” he said.Later, Mr. McCain took up the topic again, saying the problem of what to do with illegal immigrants already here needs to be solved, saying “they are also God’s children, and we have to do it in a human and compassionate fashion,” which drew applause from his audience.Comments are no longer being accepted.Yes, immigration reform is an excellent signature issue for McCain….one where no matter what you propose you will make a lot of people unhappy.  Please grab that third rail, Mr. McCain.The question is whether McCain will speak out before audiences that may be “unfriendly” on immigration reform, and exactly what his plan will look like.  His reputation for being principled and “influence free” does not match his record. On a list of a dozen reasons why McCain will not win in November I have,7. The Not So Straight-talk Factor: McCain has built his reputation on being a man of principle. This has two features: he believes in something and he sticks with what he believes in. McCain has recently begun to backpedal on principles and commitments. He is vulnerable to being viewed as a flip-flopper, if not dishonest, which will undermine his hitherto greatest strength.9. The Skeleton Factor: The Keating Five and lobbyists, need I say more.The rest of the list is too long for a comment.McCAIN: THE AMNESTY KING FOR ILLEGAL ALIENS2003- Sen. McCain was a co-sponsor of S. 1645, the AgJOBS amnesty.2003- Sen. McCain was a co-sponsor the S. 1461 amnesty for millions of illegal aliens.2005- Sen. McCain and Sen. Kennedy introduced S.1033, the McCain-Kennedy Amnesty for virtually all illegal aliens, co-sponsored by Sen. Joe Lieberman.2005- Sen. McCain was a co-sponsor of S. 239, the AgJOBS amnesty.2005- Sen. McCain voted against providing funding for additional Border Patrol and ICE agents by voting against the Byrd Amendment to H.R. 1268.2006- Sen. McCain voted against extending the border fence in the Sessions Amendment (2) to H.R. 5441.2006- Sen. McCain voted to prevent the border fence from being built by voting in favor of the Managera Amendment to S. 2611, the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2006.2006- Sen. McCain voted to allow illegal aliens to receive Social Security by voting to table the Ensign Amendment to S. 2611, the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2006.2006- Sen. McCain voted against funding additional immigration investigators by voting against the Sessions Amendment (1) to H.R. 5441.2006- Sen. McCain voted in favor of S. 2611, the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2006. This bill would have awarded amnesty to 10.2 million illegal aliens.2007 Sen. McCain was heavily involved in the backroom negotiations of S. 1348 with Sen. Kennedy and Pres. Bush this was an amnesty (permanent residency & path to citizenship) for more than 12 million illegal aliens.2007 Sen. McCain cast several votes to protect the amnesty in S. 1639 and to move the amnesty toward a vote.2007- Sen. McCain is a co-sponsor of S. 774, the DREAM Act. The bill would grant in-state tuition and amnesty to more than a million illegal aliens under the age of 30.2007- Sen. McCain is a co-sponsor of S. 340, the Agricultural Job Opportunities, Benefits, and Security Act of 2007 (AgJOBS). This bill would grant amnesty to millions of illegal agricultural workers.McCain advisor is Mexico’s former Mexicans Abroad DirectorMcCain’s “Hispanic Outreach Director”, Juan Hernandez, is the same guy who was a close advisor to Mexico’s President Vicente Fox! Hernandez headed up a Mexican bureaucracy called the “Presidential Office for Mexicans Abroad.” It was designed to allow Hernandez to travel across the country, meddling with local, state, and federal immigration enforcement on behalf of millions of illegal aliens in America. Prior to aligning with the campaign staff, Hernandez has been serving in McCain’s Reform Institute as a Senior Fellow of the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Initiative.Hernandez has worked for years lobbying U.S. governors to issue drivers’ licenses to illegal aliens living in their respective states. While in his official role for the Mexican government, he pressured Western Union to lower or drop altogether their fees for wire transfers for illegal aliens sending money back home to Mexico.Hernandez is an ardent supporter of the re-conquest by Mexico of the American Southwest, and hosted lectures on the subject at the Center for U.S.-Mexico Studies in Dallas which he founded in 1995. He once told Congressman Tom Tancredo (R-CO) that the North American Southwest “is not two countries, it’s just a region.”U.S. born dual citizen Juan Hernandez is notorious for having said of Mexican Americans on Nightline on June 7, 2001, “I want the third generation, the seventh generation, I want them all to think Mexico first.”Does John McCain agree that they should always “think Mexico first?” With Hernandez as his “Hispanic Outreach Director”, who began serving last year, I don’t think there is any question. Is there any reason that anyone should think open borders fanatic Dr. Hernandez wants President McCain to secure the border? Is there any reason that anyone should trust a man to secure the border if he is getting his “Hispanic Outreach” advice from Dr. Juan Hernandez? Is there any reason why anyone should not think that John McCain is committed to giving amnesty to the 20 million illegal aliens in America?Hernandez also said to the Associated Press in 2001, “I never knew the border as a limitation. I’d be delighted if all of us could come and go between these two marvelous countries.”Two poignant quotes below are from Hernandez’s 2007 (propaganda) book, “The New American Pioneers”:“There are twenty million people, like myself, who have one foot in Mexico and one foot in the United States, and we’re very proud of it.”“We must not only have a free flow of goods and services, but also start working for a free flow of people.”Be aware John McCain supporters. One of his closest advisors is a former Mexico cabinet member. As well as a globalist, open borders, illegal alien advocate, amnesty demanding dual citizen with his allegiance given to Mexico.Apparently McCain is going to bring up every hot button issue that the Republican Party goes out of their way to avoid to give the impression of bold assertiveness. I suppose it’s working to garner him more press coverage as well, but what in this article gives any impression that he has any new ideas? Making heartfelt, religious-tinged statements make for good copy, but I want to hear how he plans to appease the rabid xenophobes of the Republican Party.McCain is correct about one thing, that we do need orderly immigration system.But that is after we seal the border, with the fence that the Democrats are busily trying to dismantle, then we can enact laws regarding bring in valid immigrants. But not just anybody. we need brains and high skilled engineers and Ph.d. We have hundreds of thousands of citizens and legal residents, currently unemployed, we do not need the the 38 illegal families or allowing any more poor un-skilled workers to overload our welfare programs. Our politicians should propose a ‘points system’ just like the one Britain, has just adopted? They had no alternative but to enact a strict quota, because the English indigenous people were starting to change their alliance, to the British Nation third party. British people had been intentionally or not intentionally on a low priority, and were being left behind in social services. It’s ‘DejaVu’ as in America. Just like 80 percent of this nation, think that special interest groups are being appeased by our politicians.As an example citizens and legal residents–time after–time, said no to AMNESTY! The huge audience of the Internet is a very large part of American society, that have condemned any thoughts of a path to citizenship. Both parties have tried to cram  AMNESTY legislation down the  throats of the majority of the US population, but twice it’s been rejected. The latest was Senator Feinstein, House Speaker Pelosi and other Democrats, who were inundated by the public demand they rescinded this bombshell of legislation. Read more details at NUMBERSUSAWell, well, well. There he goes fellas. Once a liberal, always a liberal. He is proving that he will betray the Republican party just as he had planned all along. And it is pitiful that so many of you had to be stupid enough to vote for him.“Well, well, well. There he goes fellas. Once a liberal, always a liberal. He is proving that he will betray the Republican party just as he had planned all along.”Who said that a person has to toe a party line? I keep reading comments like, “(S)He’s not a true Democrat so (s)he should leave the party” or “Good! Leave the party! You’re not a true Republican!”Balderdash.I (and I believe many people are like me) favor some things that the Democrats stand for and some things that the Republicans stand for. Does that make my vote any less valuable or ‘pure’?Campaign supporters had better learn how to talk to people of many different beliefs or they’ll find themselves talking amongst themselves. The rest of us will get down to sitting down and LISTENING to each other and work out solutions that we all can live with.It is time for “We The People” to keep America in good shape, if the Republican Party know how and who is the right man to be the next president of United States of America and who is the perfect Lady to be the First Lady, if it is not God’s will, McCain never have a chance to come back to America. It is not politics, it is not religions, it is time for All Americans to wake up and get out from the dark corner, they can only run, they cannot hide, and no one can escapes neither, it is already in His hands. McCain feel it and see it where or which way the storms coming, who wanted to get in the boat, it is up to them, the last chance, never be too late for God to leave your mark on earth, only McCain will keep Republican Party alive, no others. Remember the year of 1854? if you really love America and wants to keep for real and well, research it. Hope you understand my poor an English. (1 Samuel 6:4/Malachi 3:11/2 Timothy 1:7)”We wants Cindy McCain to be Leader”So what exactly is McCain’s position on immigration reform? He has long been an advocate of the “comprehensive” approach until the right wing of his party galvanized against it last summer and McCain campaign was in the last throws ( to borrow a phrase from Dick Darth Vader Cheney). At that point he backed away as fast as he could. Now that he has the nomination he is again talking about “comprehensive” reform. Which is it mr McCain or shall I say Mr. Flip-Flop? Straight-talk? Yeah right? Also how do all of you Catholics now feel that Mccain was willing to throw Hagee under the bus for making crazy anti-semetic comments but not anti-catholic comments?McCain’s General Election Plan.Step 1.  WEDGE POLITICSFind a divisive intractable problem you are sure will SCARE people and use it for all its worth.Step 2.  RACE BAITINGExploit the Lynch Mob mentality of the American electorate on racial issues (Real or imagined, makes no difference)That’s it really.Should be enough, the American people have always been exceptionally easy to manipulate.Ha HA.McCain again plays to an audience. I suppose next week in Texas he will call for deporting all illegals and the next week who knows. By the time he gets to the presidential debates he won’t remember which answer to give on his policies.And how can you secure the borders first when you push comprehensive reform in January 2009? You can’t. McCain’s only the presumptive nominee. Seeing as how he’s lied himself to the lead in the primaries, the nomination ought instead to go to Romney.McCain needs only to support the existing laws re/immigration after first and foremost sealing the borders. We only have to look as far as the budget problems California is having to glimpse the future of this country if illegal immigration with its subsequent welfare/medical benefits continue. What’s xenophibic or racist about enforcing laws that are already in  existance? If McCain really wants votes, how about pardoning the 2 border agents currently serving prison terms for doing their jobs?I’m glad that McCain continues to show his compassion for migrants, and I hope that if he is elected in 2009 he provides a path to citizenship for migrants already in the U.S. and looks to tackle the roots of the problem, global inequity, to stop the flow of migrants in the future.  We need to build a world where people migrate out of want, and not out of need.Well, any and all candidates that were against amnesty for illegal aliens and were for enforcing and strengthening current immigration laws (Tancredo, Ron Paul) were marginalized by mainstream media coverage, and so ALL the candidates left standing are for amnesty for illegals…  Except Ron Paul, who has NOT stopped campaigning and DOES intend to be a presence at the GOP convention.   Should be interesting.The Americans, all are the  immigrants! those who are against legalization of illegal immigrants may also are the grandchildren of illegal immigrants!John McCain is dead in the water. He pushed for amnesty and the American people defeated it. He is going to speak at the national convention of La Raza in July. I am sick of politicians pandering to illegal aliens, foreign governments, and corporations. The American people are who they are supposed to represent and they don’t listen to us. It’s time to adopt a ZERO tolerance for ALL illegal immigration. It’s time to prosecute anyone hiring illegal aliens. It’s also time to demand term limits for Congress. Politicians in office for decades tune out the people they are supposed to represent. Shame on the Democrats and Republicans for giving us this lot of horrible candidates! SHAME!Yes, I’m sick of McCain striking out a position that would give the GOP a respectable chance at capturing a large percentage of the latino vote and would address one of the most pressing issues facing the country in a thoughtful manner.Let’s go back to the good ol’ days of Goldwater when we were getting 38.5% of the vote with 6 states carried… but those 38.5% were really good conservatives, and those 6 states were really great states!Really people, get over it: you can disagree with the Senator on this issue, but is this really more imporatant to you than the thought that, if you stay home and Obama is elected: Barack Obama will be running our foreign diplomacy? Barack Obama will be picking the next couple of Supreme Court Justices (and trust me, they will be in their 40s, so you’ll get to live with them for the rest of your lives)? President Obama will be wielding the veto pen over the legislation passed by Pelosi’s House and Reid’s Senate?The U.S. is the third most populous country, right behind China and India.  We do not need more immigrants, legal or illegal.  I’d like to see a law passed that says one legal immigrant can come in for every one leaving, and anyone caught in the country illegally forever forfeits their right to immigrate legally.   As for the person who said we need to address global inequity as the cause of illegal immigration, I say put your money where your mouth is. Compare the net worth of your family with one in say, Sudan, and send them a check for the difference. But leave MY tax money, and My country out of your nutty ideas of wealth and voting power re-distribution.I do not care about illegal aliens; however, I would like Mr. McCain to do something about H-1B. This year there are about 143,000 beneficiaries applying for 58,200. If this continues, then, no graduates will stay in the United States after graduation.i too have no real candidate in this election. i however will write in the name TOM TANCRADO. this way MCain will be able to see what my feeling are.I held my nose and voted for Bush in 2004, hoping he would get tough on illegal aliens. I will never vote for the lesser of two evils again. McCain will destroy America’s middle class.The latest on President Obama, Congress and other political news from Washington -- and around the nation -- from the staff of The New York Times.FollowAdvertisementAdvertisementThe immigrants, including doctors, medical technicians and computer engineers from India and China, came from as far as California and Washington State to call on Congress to provide more permanent visas for highly educated immigrants and more resources for the overburdened immigration system. They said the plight of foreigners living in this country legally had been unfairly eclipsed by the polarized debate over illegal immigration that led to the defeat of an immigration overhaul in June.While the rally’s numbers were not large, immigration policy advocates said it was very unusual for legal immigrants, traditionally cautious since their visa applications and their futures are in the hands of the federal government, to stage public protests. The immigrants, who are living in the United States on temporary student or high-skilled employment visas, said they were nearing despair with waits lasting as long as a decade to obtain visas giving them permanent residence, which are known as a green cards.“When I heard about this rally I immediately made the decision to come,” said Paul Wang, 37, a computer scientist from China who lives and works in Virginia. “I like the freedom and the safety in this country. I want to send a request signal to Congress to bring more efficiency to the process for us to get a green card.”AdvertisementPaul Donnelly, a consultant to American Families United, a legal immigrant advocacy group, who said he had been working on immigration policy in Washington for more than 25 years, called the rally “a genuinely new phenomenon.” “It is a significant thing to have foreign-born people, who are notoriously hard to organize, organizing themselves,” Mr. Donnelly said.AdvertisementSince Congress reconvened this month, more and more calls have come for lawmakers to revisit the immigration issue by first fixing the foundering system for legal immigration. On Sept. 11 a bipartisan group of 13 governors, including those from the states with the largest immigrant populations, sent a letter to the leaders of Congress asking for increases in the number of temporary visas and green cards for highly educated immigrants.Saying there was a “critical shortage” of professionals in math and the sciences, the governors wrote, “We must recognize that foreign talent has a role to play in our ability to keep companies located in our state and country.” The governors included Arnold Schwarzenegger of California and Rick Perry of Texas, both Republicans; and Janet Napolitano of Arizona and Eliot Spitzer of New York, who are Democrats.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Despite soaring demand from immigrants and high-tech businesses, an annual limit of 140,000 on employment-based green cards has not been altered since 1990. A study published in August by the Kauffman Foundation of Kansas City, Mo., found that 1.1 million highly skilled immigrants and their family members were languishing in backlogs in 2006, waiting for green cards. Temporary visas for immigrants with special skills, known as H1B visas, are limited to 65,000 a year, plus 20,000 visas for immigrants who earn advanced academic degrees in the United States.The Kauffman study reported that some immigrant professionals were becoming discouraged by the prospect of bureaucratic delays. One in three new, skilled immigrants working here said they were uncertain whether they would remain, according to the study, conducted by researchers from Harvard, Duke and New York University. This raised the possibility of reverse brain drain, as immigrants who came to the United States for advanced studies might decide to return to their home countries.The immigrants at the rally were clearly committed to staying in the United States, pausing from their speeches to listen to one of their leaders sing “The Star-Spangled Banner.”Dr. Sridhar Narra, 34, a physician born in India, said his effort to gain a green card had lasted almost eight years, including a two-year forced separation from his wife, also from India. After coming to the United States in 1999, Dr. Narra has practiced medicine under a special visa for doctors who serve in areas where medical personnel are scarce. He has worked with low-income and uninsured patients at a clinic in Benton Harbor, Mich., fulfilling a five-year requirement, and applied for his green card two years ago.“I’ve been waiting, law abiding, tax paying,” Dr. Narra said. “How long is long enough?”Temporary immigrants who want green cards must obtain a Labor Department certification that no American workers are available for their jobs. It can take more than a year to get that certification. And in a June report, the ombudsman for Citizenship and Immigration Services, the agency that handles green card applications, found that more than 100,000 F.B.I. background checks of immigrants, also part of the application, had been in process  for more than a year.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementMODERATOR: The new national intelligence estimate contains a major change. It says that Iran stopped its nuclear weapons program in the fall of 2003.Today President Bush said that nothing’s changed in light of the report. He said the NIE, the national intelligence estimate, doesn’t do anything to change his opinion about the danger Iran poses to the world.For all of you -- and let’s go left to right across the radio dial -- do you agree with the president’s assessment that Iran still poses a threat? And do you agree that the NIE’s news shows that isolation and sanctions work?AdvertisementSenator Clinton?CLINTON: Well, I’m relieved that the intelligence community has reached this conclusion, but I vehemently disagree with the president that nothing’s changed and therefore nothing in American policy has to change.AdvertisementI have for two years advocated diplomatic engagement with Iran, and I think that’s what the president should do. He should seize this opportunity and engage in serious diplomacy, using both carrots and sticks.I think we do know that pressure on Iran does have an effect. I think that is an important lesson. But we’re not going to reach the kind of resolution that we should seek unless we put that into the context of a diplomatic process.MODERATOR: Thank you, Senator Clinton.Former Senator Mike Gravel?GRAVEL: Iran’s not a problem, never has been, never will be. What you’re seeing right here is something very unique, very courageous. What the intelligence community has done is drop kick the president of the United States. These are people of courage that have watched what the president is doing, the on rush to war with Iran.And so by releasing this information, which is diametrically opposed to the estimate that was given in ’05, by showing that there is no information to warrant what the White House has been doing, they have now boxed in the president in his ability to go to war.So my hat is off to these courageous people within the bureaucrats -- bureaucracy -- of the intelligence community.MODERATOR: Thank you, Senator Gravel.Senator Barack Obama?OBAMA: Well, I think Iran continues to be a threat to some of its neighbors in the region. So they’re still funding Hamas, they’re still funding Hezbollah, and those are things we have to be concerned about.But it is absolutely clear that this administration and President Bush continues to not let facts get in the way of his ideology. And that’s been the problem with their foreign policy generally.AdvertisementThey should have stopped the saber rattling; should have never started it. And they need, now, to aggressively move on the diplomatic front.I have said consistently, since the beginning of this campaign, that it is important for the president to lead diplomatic efforts, to try to offer to Iran the prospect of joining the World Trade Organization, potential normalized relations over time, in exchange for changes in behavior. That’s something that has to be pursued.MODERATOR: Senator Chris Dodd?DODD: Well, again, this is 16 agencies that have drawn this conclusion. It wasn’t just one. So it’s a very compelling case that’s been made here for exercising caution in pursuing what I’ve advocated and others have as well, and that is pursuing as much of a diplomatic solution to the problems that Iran poses -- and there are some. It would be foolish to say otherwise here.But the important point is we can’t do this unilaterally. And that’s one of the dangers here. If we merely try to impose sanctions by ourselves, or other such efforts here, they will fail. It’s very important to understand the linkage, obviously, not only between Iran, but Iraq and Iran, and our ability to build this kind of international support for efforts to convince Iran on a variety of issues to move in a different direction is being seriously compromised by our continued military presence in Iraq.So there needs to be not only understanding what’s written in this report, but simultaneously understanding that that universe -- that more multilateral approach is going to be hobbled and difficult, as long as we find ourselves bogged down in the Iraq situation.MODERATOR: Thank you, Senator Dodd.Senator Joseph Biden?BIDEN: With all due respect with anybody who thinks that pressure brought this about, let’s get this straight. In 2003, they stopped their program.You cannot trust this president. He is not trustworthy. He has undermined our security in the region. He has undermined our credibility in the world. He has made it more difficult to get cooperation from the rest of the world.He has caused oil to go up roughly $25 a barrel, with a security premium, because of his threat of war.AdvertisementIt is outrageous, intolerable, and it must stop. The president of the United States -- it was like watching a rerun of his statements on Iraq five years earlier.This -- Iran is not a nuclear threat to the United States of America. Iran should be dealt with directly with the rest of the world at our side. But we’ve made it more difficult now because who is going to trust us?Who in Europe, who in China, who in Russia?MODERATOR: Thank you, Senator Biden.BIDEN: It’s outrageous.MODERATOR: Senator John Edwards?EDWARDS: Thank you. What I believe is that this president, who, just a few weeks ago, was talking about World War III, he, the vice president, the neocons have been on a march to possible war with Iran for a long time.EDWARDS: We know that they’ve prepared contingency plans for a military attack. My view is that this has been going on since the famous axis of evil speech.And the United States Senate had an important responsibility in standing up to him and stopping him on the vote on whether to declare the Iranian Revolutionary Guard a terrorist organization.The president says we’re in a global war on terror, and then he declares the Iranian Revolutionary Guard a terrorist organization and also a proliferator of weapons of mass destruction.It’s absolutely clear and eerily similar to what we saw with Iraq, where they were headed and there’s a different approach, a smart approach, using our friends in Europe and the European banking system to deal with it.AdvertisementMODERATOR: Thank you, Senator Edwards.Congressman Kucinich?KUCINICH: Just as five years ago I warned that there was no evidence that would merit war against Iraq and warned this country not to do it, so for the past few years I’ve been saying that there’s no evidence that Iran had a nuclear weapons program.And unfortunately, the president, just as he was able to convince some of my colleagues here to vote for the war against Iraq, despite the fact there wasn’t any real evidence, so he has been able to get some of my colleagues here -- Senators Clinton, Obama and Edwards -- to say of Iran: All options are on the table.KUCINICH: As a matter of fact, he’s still saying that.So we really need to switch to not just diplomacy, but my candidacy offers the American people someone for president who was right the first time.MODERATOR: Thank you, Congressional Kucinich.MODERATOR: Senator Clinton, as some of your opponents have noted, in September, you voted on a resolution involving the Iranian Revolutionary Guard which, among other things, called them proliferators of mass destruction.In view of this latest intelligence estimate which says Iran’s nuclear program was stopped in 2003, do you believe that’s still true?CLINTON: Well, there were other purposes for that resolution. It does label the Iranian Revolutionary Guard as a terrorist organization. And there is evidence that they do support Hamas and Hezbollah, as Senator Obama just said; and, in addition, have until recently, been supplying weapons and technical advisers to various factions within Iraq.Since that resolution passed, which was nonbinding and did not in any way authorize the president to take any action that would lead to war, our commanders on the ground in Iraq have announced that we’ve seen some progress from the Iranians backing off; no longer sending in weapons and materiel and beginning to withdraw their technical advisers.MODERATOR: Forgive me, are the Revolutionary Guards proliferators of mass destruction?CLINTON: Well, many of us believe that.AdvertisementYou know, earlier this year Senator Edwards told an audience in Israel that the nuclear threat from Iran was the greatest threat to our generation. Back in 2004, Senator Obama told the Chicago Tribune editorial board that he would even consider surgical strikes by missiles to take out Iran’s nuclear capacity.So there was a very broadly based belief that they were pursuing a nuclear weapon.MODERATOR: Let’s hear from the people you’ve just mentioned.Senator Edwards, you remember saying that?EDWARDS: Well, first of all, Senator Clinton and I just have an honest disagreement about this, but a very strong disagreement.I think it’s very clear that Bush and Cheney have been rattling the saber about Iran for a very long time. And I said very clearly when this vote took place on the Iranian Revolutionary Guard that it was important for us to stand up to them.MODERATOR: But your remarks in Israel that Senator...EDWARDS: Everyone at the table would acknowledge that Iran represents a serious issue for the Middle East and...(CROSSTALK)KUCINICH: Not everyone.MODERATOR: Congressman Kucinich does not, but...(CROSSTALK)EDWARDS: Let me finish, if I can.KUCINICH: Let me characterize my own remarks.EDWARDS: And I do believe very strongly that it was important for us to stand up. Because what Bush and Cheney did after the vote in the Senate, is they declared the Iranian Revolutionary Guard a terrorist organization and a proliferator of weapons of mass destruction.AdvertisementMODERATOR: Senator Obama?OBAMA: Well, Senator Clinton’s mention of the Chicago Tribune article back in 2004 I think is a little bit misleading. Because what I was specifically asked about was, if Iran was developing nuclear weapons, how could we respond? And in those situations, what I said is, We should keep options on the table.But what I’ve been consistent about was that this saber-rattling was a repetition of Iraq, a war I opposed, and that we needed to oppose George Bush again. We can’t keep on giving him the benefit of the doubt, knowing the ways in which they manipulate intelligence.MODERATOR: Senator Obama, we’re going to have to take a break here. And we’ll continue with our debate. We’ll continue discussing Iran in just one minute.MODERATOR: Welcome back to the NPR news debate. We’re with the Democrats in Des Moines, Iowa.MODERATOR: We’re discussing Iran, the lessons learned from the war in Iraq.A moment ago, when Congressman Kucinich objected to -- or interrupted the statement from Senator Edwards that everybody agrees Iran is a threat, you say, Congressman Kucinich, I misinterpreted your earlier remarks that Iran is not a threat.KUCINICH: All I did was raised my hand. I wanted a chance to respond. Thank you.MODERATOR: Yes.KUCINICH: The point that Senator Clinton made was a valid point, with respect to the comments of Senator Obama and also the comments of Senator Edwards at the Herzliya conference.See, when people say all options are on the table, as the three senators have, they actually encouraged President Bush and licensed his rhetoric.And what I’m saying is that I’m the only one here who in Congress repeatedly challenged -- in every chance, in every legislation repeatedly challenged this mindset that said all options are on the table and that Iran had nuclear weapons programs.AdvertisementMODERATOR: OK. Fair enough.KUCINICH: And I’m the only one here who can make that claim.MODERATOR: Clarified.Senator Chris Dodd, are all options on the table, or should they be on the table?DODD: Well, certainly, under what circumstance we’re talking about here, I think the vote in September is very important. We’re all seeking to be the nominee of our party, seeking the presidency.MODERATOR: You’re talking about the vote on the Kyl-Lieberman resolution -- amendment.DODD: I am.That’s very important because it was a -- there are only about 20 of us here -- Senator Biden and myself were the only two on this table here that were confronted with that vote that voted against it, along with Senator Lugar, I might point, Senator Chuck Hagel and others -- Jim Webb -- who felt that this was -- the language of the resolved clause in that resolution, that nonbinding resolution, specifically eliminated any option except the military one.And that kind of framework is exactly the thing you’re going to hear back again, in my view, and the danger involved.DODD: Those critical moments come periodically, but it demonstrates leadership on a critical issue such as this one.MODERATOR: Thank you, Senator Dodd.(CROSSTALK)MODERATOR: Senator Clinton, you voted for it, Senator Clinton.CLINTON: Well, I did, along with many others, including strong opponents of the Iraq war and the use of military force, like Senator Dick Durbin and Senator Carl Levin.And all of us have said that if we thought that anything in that resolution gave even a pretense of legitimacy to President Bush taking any action, we wouldn’t have voted that way.' fact, a number of the Democrats worked furiously to clarify the meaning of that resolution.The specifics about designating the Iranian Revolutionary Guard as a terrorist organization I believe fits into a broader diplomatic effort. I believe in aggressive diplomacy when it comes to Iran. And when you engage in aggressive diplomacy, you need both carrots and sticks.And I think the designation provides one of those sticks that will give us a chance to make progress to where we could have a resolution.MODERATOR: I want you to hear what one of the sponsors of that resolution, Senator Joseph Lieberman, said about Iran and about the Revolutionary Guard, explaining that resolution when he spoke one month ago on All Things Considered.(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)SEN. JOSEPH I. LIEBERMAN, I-CONN.: Iran has crossed a red line. I mean, they are responsible for the killing of hundreds of American soldiers. And right now all that we, the United States, has done is to tell them -- show them the evidence that we have that they’re doing it and tell them they’ve got to stop and they haven’t.So, now we have economic sanctions.If that doesn’t work, we really have to consider military action to stop them from doing it, perhaps by striking the bases around Tehran where we know they are training these Iraqi terrorists who go back to kill Americans.MODERATOR: Senator Edwards, why not?EDWARDS: Well, first of all, diplomacy -- declaring a military group sponsored by the state of Iran a terrorist organization, that’s supposed to be diplomacy?And I would add, this has to be considered in the context that -- Senator Clinton has spoken about me; let me just respond -- this has to be considered in the context that Senator Clinton has said she agrees with George Bush terminology that we’re in a global war on terror, then she voted to declare a military group in Iran a terrorist organization. What possible conclusion can you reach other than we are at war?MODERATOR: Senator Clinton, your reply? And then we’ll hear from Senator Gravel.EDWARDS: And so I have a very -- very different view about what you need to do to stand up to Bush.AdvertisementMODERATOR: We’ll have a response from Senator Clinton and then Mike Gravel.CLINTON: Well, I understand politics, and I understand making outlandish political charges, but this really goes way too far.In fact, having designated the Iranian Revolutionary Guard a terrorist organization, we’ve actually seen some changes in their behavior.There is absolutely no basis for a rush to war, which I oppose and have opposed for two years.But there is also a recognition that the Iranians were supplying weapons that killed Americans, they were supplying technical assistance from the Quds Force, which is their special operations element.So I think we’ve actually seen the positive effects of having labeled them a terrorist organization because it did change their behavior.MODERATOR: Mike Gravel, then Joe Biden.GRAVEL: There is no evidence. There is no evidence.GRAVEL: And they’ve produced none. Our military has no evidence and they’ve not produced any.But let’s -- I want to touch something that they’re all giving license to; that there’s something wrong with Iran supporting Hamas and Hezbollah.These are two elected organizations. And why can’t they give support to those organizations?Israel doesn’t want it. So why do they buy, hook, line and sinker, that they can’t give aid to Hamas and Hezbollah?We give unlimited aid to Israel. These people are fighting for their rights.MODERATOR: You -- you believe...AdvertisementGRAVEL: Is there something wrong with that?MODERATOR: We’ll come back to your points in a moment. Senator Biden, you wanted to talk about the Al Quds brigade?BIDEN: No, I wanted to talk about this issue. As chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, I’m the only one at this table -- for the last four years, I’ve been laying out concrete alternatives to the Bush administration’s policy.The vote -- what everybody misunderstands, in my humble opinion, is the vote to declare the Quds Force and the Revolutionary Guard a terrorist organization was not a view that could be established without question, number one.Number two, it is self-defeating. The moment that declaration was made, oil prices jumped over $18 a barrel. The moment that declaration was made, every one of our friends, from Iraq to Pakistan, felt they had to distance themselves from us because it appears to be a war on Islam.BIDEN: With all due respect to my colleagues, with the exception of Senator Dodd, they’re not connecting the dots here. This matters and there’s no evidence -- none, zero...MODERATOR: Thank you.BIDEN: ... that this declaration caused any change in action on the part of the Iranian government.MODERATOR: Senator Barack Obama?OBAMA: There was another problem with the resolution that we haven’t spoken about, and that was that it suggested that we should structure, in some way, our forces in Iraq with the goal of blunting Iranian influence in Iraq.Now, this is a problem on a whole bunch of fronts. But number one, the reason that Iran has been strengthened was because of this misguided war in Iraq.AdvertisementWe installed -- helped to elect a government in Iraq that we knew had connections with Iran. And so, the notion, somehow, that they’re not going to have influence and that we may be using yet another justification for a continuing mission in Iraq, I think, is an extreme problem and one of the reasons why this was a bad idea.MODERATOR: Senator Edwards?EDWARDS: I just want to be clear to the listeners that we have a real division here. I mean, among the Democratic candidates, there’s only one that voted for this resolution. And this is exactly what Bush and Cheney wanted.EDWARDS: Second, there is a clear path for America on Iran. They’ve got a president, Ahmadinejad, who is unpopular in own country. We have the capacity to work with our European allies and the European banking system to put a proposal of stick and carrots on the table that actually will help influence their behavior.The Iranian people, in many ways, do not support this guy. And they’re looking for a path. We need to help provide that path by making a serious proposal with our friends in Europe of sticks and carrots to help them with their economy.MODERATOR: Senator Clinton, and then another question.CLINTON: I think, first of all, it’s important to recognize the Ahmadinejad does not control the Iranian Revolutionary Guard. They are directly controlled from the clerical leadership and the supreme leader.And, in fact, because we have not engaged in diplomacy, we are quite unsure about what exactly goes on inside of Iran, which is one of the reasons why I’ve advocated diplomatic efforts for two years.If we were to engage in such diplomatic efforts, because of the enmeshment of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard in the economic activity of Iran, I believe these economic sanctions, as part of diplomacy, would be an advantage going in to those diplomatic efforts.I have the greatest respect for my friend and colleague, Joe Biden. He and I just respectfully disagree about this. But I think that the important issues is that this is something that we have strong feelings about.AdvertisementCLINTON: But none of us is advocating a rush to war. I have been against that. I was the first of anyone at this table to go to the floor of the Senate, speak against the possibility that Bush could take us to war in Iran, back in February.And I think that we have two different ways of approaching this. Our goals are the same: diplomatic engagement with Iran.MODERATOR: Iran’s president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, thrives on anti-Americanism. One of our listeners, Ray Conrad, from Keosauqua, Iowa, who, incidentally, has made campaign contributions to Senator Edwards and also to Senator Biden, sent us a question about that.And he put it this way: Clearly, many Muslims hate the U.S. enough to want to do us grievous harm. Would you speculate on the reasons for their hatred of us?Senator Biden, why?BIDEN: By the way, terminology matters. I’m a great admirer of Senator Clinton. It’s not about not advocating a rush to war. I’m advocating no war. A rush to war means that war, taken slowly, going slowly, is possible. I’m advocating no war, no justification for war.Number two.MODERATOR: Take military off the table, you would say.BIDEN: The reason why -- the reason why we are disliked so much is because we are trusted so little. The reason why we are disliked so much, obviously -- I’m not talking about Al Qaida, I’m talking about the 1.2 billion Muslims in the world who look at us, and when we say and do things as we’re talking about now with Iran, conclude that this is a war on Islam.BIDEN: I’ll make one point. When we went into Afghanistan, the word was the Arab street would rise up. We did it the right way. The Arab street knew that Arabs -- the Muslims in Al Qaida were bad guys, they supported us.When we do things that don’t sound rational to them, it undercuts our legitimacy, we have no legitimacy.AdvertisementMODERATOR: Let me put this to Senator Edwards first, and then others.When we do things that policymakers in Washington may think are rational, like very strong support of Israel, that also upsets a lot of those 1 billion Muslims you’ve described.How would you, Senator Edwards, how would you as president, Senator Edwards, answer the complaint that the U.S., in its support of Israel, is so pro-Israeli it can’t be an evenhanded, honest broker of matters and is anti-Muslim?EDWARDS: Well, first of all, I think that what’s driving this belief about America in the Muslim community around the world is the bullying, selfish, abusive behavior of George Bush and this administration.I do want to go back to one quick point. I listened to Senator Clinton talk about what’s happening inside Iran.We know what’s happening inside Iran. We know a great deal about what’s happening. We know, for example, that Ahmadinejad’s candidates in the election this -- December about a year ago got clobbered. We know that there’s serious political -- lack of political support for this man. And we have a huge wedge there that’s available to America.But as to the Muslim community, I think that the most important thing for America to do is to demonstrate that we have a responsibility, not just to ourselves, but to humanity, and to help make education available, to fight global poverty.EDWARDS: We need to take serious steps to demonstrate that America is actually worthy of leadership.MODERATOR: Senator Obama?OBAMA: Well, I think John’s point is right, but I want to broaden it a little bit.Listen to the Republican candidates’ debates and how they frame this issue. And if you are a Muslim overseas, listening to Rudy Giuliani say, they are coming here to try to kill you, which is the tenor of many of the speeches that are delivered by the Republican candidates, you would get an impression that they are not interested in talking and resolving issues peacefully.AdvertisementNow, what we need to do is we need to close Guantanamo. We need to restore habeas corpus. We need to send a strong signal that we are going to talk directly to, not just our friends, but also to our enemies.And I have to say that, when I brought this up early on in this campaign, I was called naive and irresponsible.And yet -- yet, the point -- the reason for that was not necessarily because we’re going to change Ahmadinejad’s mind. It’s because we’re going to change the minds of people inside Iran, moderate forces inside Iran, as well as our Muslim allies around the region, that we are willing to listen to them and try to engage in finding ways to resolve conflicts cooperatively.MODERATOR: Senator Christopher Dodd?DODD: Well, this is long-standing. In the immediate aftermath of 9/11, we had -- there were, I think, classified ads in the Washington Post trying to find if there was anyone in the region who spoke Arabic.This has been a vacuum for a long time, in terms of our relationship with the Muslim world -- the 22 countries in the world that are Muslim nations. We’ve been, basically, AWOL dealing with these nations here and that has bred a lack of understanding and appreciation -- the point I think that Barack was trying to make here.But also, over these last six years, despite this effort over the last few days in Annapolis, where has this administration been on the Middle East issues here? They are connected in many ways here.We’ve walked away from that. And that -- that absence of our participation, as well as our failure to understand and to try and have a better for what the culture of the Muslim world is, I think, has created the very environment you talked about.AdvertisementMODERATOR: Last word on this topic from Dennis Kucinich.KUCINICH: Thank you.To answer your question directly, we need to reach out to Muslim nations and to tell them America is taking a different direction.KUCINICH: No more unilateralism, preemption, first strike. We’re going to -- our policy will be strength through peace. As the one up here who not only voted against, but voted 100 percent of the time against funding the war in Iraq, the war in Iraq was used to create a wedge between the United States and Islam.The build-up to an attack on Iran was really a danger to Israel, because everyone knows that Israel would have paid the price for the United States wrongheaded policy. That’s not being discussed in any of the analysis yet, but I’m here to say it.We need to protect and provide for the security of Israel, and to make sure that the Palestinians can have a state. And it has to be done under circumstances where the security of all parties and the civil rights and human rights of all parties are protected.MODERATOR: Well, this question comes from a listener. It’s a political science professor, Chris Pence of Marion, Indiana.QUESTION: American diplomatic history books recount the Monroe Doctrine, the Truman Doctrine and will likely discuss the Bush doctrine. When future historians write of your administration’s foreign policy pursuits, what will be noted as your doctrine and the vision you cast for U.S. diplomatic relations?MODERATOR: Time for a couple of you at least.Senator Clinton, what do you think the Clinton doctrine will be?CLINTON: It will be a doctrine that demonstrates that the United States is not afraid to cooperate; that through cooperation in our inter-dependent world, we actually can build a stronger country and a stronger world that will be more reflective of our values.MODERATOR: Thank you, Senator Clinton.The Edwards doctrine?EDWARDS: The Edwards doctrine will be longer-term , visionary; not the kind of ad hoc foreign policy -- foreign policy of convenience that we’ve seen over the last seven years, but instead, looking at not only the short-term issues that American and the world faces -- I’ve talked about Iran; Pakistan; what’s happening with North Korea; we’re about to talk about China -- but also to think about what is it that America does over the long-term to strengthen not only our leadership role, but our ability to provide stability.And the key to that is for America both through our actions and through our language from the president of the United States to demonstrate that we respect people who grow up in different cultures with different faith beliefs, that we respect people who have a different perspective than we do and we intend to lead , but to work with those people, and for America, whereas education, health, et cetera, to meet its responsibility to humanity.MODERATOR: And, Senator Biden, the Biden doctrine?BIDEN: Clarity. Prevention, not preemption. An absolute repudiation of this president’s doctrine which has only three legs on the stool. One, push the mute button, don’t talk to anybody. Two, preemption. And three, regime change.I would reject all three. We need a doctrine of prevention. The role of a great power is to prevent the crises.And we don’t have to imagine any of the crises. We know what’s going to happen on day one when you’re president. You have Pakistan, Russia, China, the subcontinent of India. You have Afghanistan. You have Darfur.And it requires engagement, engagement and prevention. That does not rule out the use of force. It incorporates the notion of prevention. Prevention.MODERATOR: Senator Obama, the short version of the Obama doctrine?OBAMA: Well, I think one of the things about the Obama doctrine is it’s not going to be as doctrinaire as the Bush doctrine, because the world is complicated.And I think part of the problem we’ve had is that ideology has overridden facts and reality.But I think the basic concept, and I’ve heard it from some of the other folks, is that increasingly we have to view our security in terms of a common security and a common prosperity with other peoples and other countries.And that means that if there are children in the Middle East who cannot read, that is a potential long-term danger to us. If China is polluting, then eventually that is going to reach our shores.We have to work with them cooperatively to solve their problems as well as ours.MODERATOR: And we will continue our debate from Des Moines in just a minute.MODERATOR: We’re broadcasting from Des Moines, Iowa. And in this part of the debate, we’re going to focus on a changing China and its effects here at home.MODERATOR: We’ll talk about the economic power of China and what it means for U.S. consumers, U.S. workers, and the American financial system.We’ll also hear about the strategic challenges China presents, its huge military buildup, its enormous appetite for natural resources, its environmental record. And we’ll also cover human rights, we hope, and China’s growing influence in the world.MODERATOR: And that’s where we’d like to start. And I’d like to pose a question to many of you.Given China’s size, its muscular manufacturing capabilities, its military buildup, at this point -- and also including its large trade deficit -- at this point, who has more leverage, China or the U.S.?And I’m going to begin with you, Senator Edwards.EDWARDS: I think that what’s happened with the last seven years of the Bush administration is America’s faced, over the long term, with two very serious challenges, one of which they’ve been obsessed with, which is the issue of terrorism.The other is the rise and strength of China, which they’ve done virtually nothing about, on any front, I mean, ranging from China sending dangerous toys into the United States to our trade relationship with China to, as Robert just mentioned, their buildup of their military, which they’re doing opaquely. We know very little about what they’re actually doing.On top of that, they’re obsessed with their own internal economic development. And that results in them propping up bad regimes like Sudan, like Iran. They’re doing incredible damage to the environment.So the answer to the question is -- America continues to have serious economic leverage with the Chinese and diplomatic leverage with the Chinese.MODERATOR: Who has more leverage?EDWARDS: Well, I think that’s -- what we know is they’re growing, they’re strong.I think America’s stronger today. And if we deal with these issues and we deal with them in a serious way across the board, and we engage on these issues -- which we have not been doing and we see the consequences for American children right now, with these dangerous lead-filled toys coming into the United States, with this extraordinary trade deficit that we have, the growing of their military. We see them propping up genocide in western Sudan and Darfur, with their economic development there.American must engage the Chinese on all of these issues.MODERATOR: All right, we’ll get to that question of product safety in just a minute.First, Senator Obama.OBAMA: Well, there are three issues that we have to deal with.Number one, is we’ve got to get our own fiscal house in order. Our leverage is weakening when we run up enormous deficits funding a war that should have never been authorized. And we then are taking out the credit card with the Chinese. That gives us less leverage.Number two, when I was visiting Africa, I was told by a group of businessmen that the presence of China is only exceeded by the absence of America in the entire African continent. And it indicates the unwillingness of our administration to think strategically about other counties beyond the war on terror.OBAMA: Number three, we have to be tougher negotiators with China. They are not enemies, but they are competitors of ours.And on the economic front, on trade issues, on issues importation, we have not been the best negotiators. And oftentimes, we’re negotiating on behalf of Wall Street, as opposed to on behalf of Main Street.MODERATOR: I heard you say less leverage. Who has more leverage at this point?OBAMA: Well, right now, the United States is still the dominant superpower in the world. But we have to -- the next president can’t be thinking about today; he or she also has to be thinking about 10 years from now, 20 years from now, 50 years from now.And if we continue on current trends without dealing with the problems that we have economically, and unless we are engaging in the world more effectively, then our influence is going to slip.MODERATOR: Representative Kucinich?KUCINICH: Yes. I maybe the only one up here who actually voted against China trade because of the concerns I had that the U.S. was not going to be able to maintain its manufacturing base, which is central to maintaining a middle class.What we’ve seen is that without solid trade policies, we’re undermined.Without a strength-through-peace doctrine of rejecting war as an instrument of policy, we’re going to keep borrowing money from China. Let us not forget we’re borrowing money from China to finance the war in Iraq.And in addition to that, the speculation on Wall Street has weakened our economy.We need a policy of constructive engagement with China, stop the arms race with them, work to make sure we have a global climate change treaty with China, get them to transition out of nuclear and coal and oil.KUCINICH: I’m talking about a whole new direction that’s based on a doctrine of strength through peace. And I have a voting record up here to back it up, unlike some of my esteemed colleagues.MODERATOR: Senator Clinton, do we need them more than they need us?CLINTON: Well, your question about leverage is related to that -- the second question.We currently still have more leverage, but it doesn’t really count because we’re not using it. We have handicapped ourselves because of the irresponsible fiscal policies pursued by the Bush economic direction. But we’ve also, unfortunately, seen an incoherent foreign policy.So until we set our fiscal house back in order and until we understand that we have to have a strategic relationship with China, it’s going to be very difficult for us to use whatever leverage we have.And I fear that if we don’t start taking steps to demonstrate that we are back in charge of our fiscal destiny, that we do have a coherent diplomatic approach toward China, China will continue to gain leverage over us.MODERATOR: It’s the holiday season, and many Americans are heading to the stores. And many of the products that they’re going to find on the shelves have a Made in China label.We’ve talked to Iowans about China. And there’s one listener in particular, his name is Don Frummelt (ph). He said that consumers and politicians both have a somewhat schizophrenic relationship when it comes to China.MODERATOR: Let’s listen to what he had to say.(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)QUESTION: You can’t have it both ways. And I think we need candidates who are willing to bite the bullet. And if you’re going to see our balance of trade is upside down with China, there’s one way to fix it. Put on some kind of a tariff and prevent the American people from buying $300 TVs instead of $600 TVs.(END AUDIO CLIP)MODERATOR: Senator Biden, how would...BIDEN: Well...MODERATOR: Would you actually restrict trade with China?And given the WTO guidelines, could you actually do that?BIDEN: With the WTO guidelines, we could stop these products coming in now. This president doesn’t act. We have much more leverage on China than they have on us.Let’s get something straight here. We’re making them into 10 feet tall. It took them 30 years to get 20 percent of their population out of poverty. They’ve got 800 million people in poverty. They’re in real distress.The idea that a country with 800 million people in poverty has greater leverage over us is preposterous.What it is, is we’ve yielded to corporate America. We’ve yielded to this president’s notion of what constitutes trade. And we’ve refused to enforce the laws that exist.As president, I would end, flat, bang, no importation of those toys. Why? Under WTO, you’re allowed to do it until you send inspectors to guarantee.BIDEN: Why aren’t they doing it? Corporate America...MODERATOR: No, this listener called for tariffs. Are you willing to go there?BIDEN: No, I’m not willing to go there. You don’t need to start a tariff war. All you have to do is enforce the law, enforce the law.MODERATOR: Thank you.Senator Dodd?DODD: Well, I want to go back to the characterization of the relationship. Obviously, it’s a strategic one. But this is not a competition. If it were a competition, competition implies that people are playing by the same rules. We’re not playing by the same rules here. This is an adversarial relationship today. That needs to change.But when you manipulate your currency, as they do, in violation of the World Trade Organization here, to the tune of 40 percent, you’ve immediately created a huge disadvantage for our country.When you employ slave labor in the production of your manufactured goods, when you deny access on your shelves to the products and services we produce, it is not a competition. It’s adversarial.Now, I’m not interested in being bellicose about this, but you need to understand exactly what the relationship is today before we decide what steps you take.We ought to be -- not raising our voice in a loud necessarily way, but we ought to be able to talk about that we need to stand up and say, This is a market you want to be in. If you want to be here, then you’re going to have to play like an adult here, if you’re going to continue following policies that allow you to manipulate your currency, produce goods that you sell in our marketplace that do damage to our consumers.When we got word that they were sending toys over here with lead paint in them, cat food and toothpaste here, the president had the authority immediately to suspend importation. He wouldn’t do it.Had that been a U.S. corporation doing that, their doors would have been shut in 20 minutes.MODERATOR: Now, my collage Steve has a question. But first, before we get there, I just want to follow up on something that Mr. Frummelt (ph) said. He said he wants a president who’s going to level the playing field.Senator Obama, what would you do in order to give the U.S. more leverage to be able to deal with China at least as an equal partner? And are you willing to do that despite the consequences, even if it means that consumers have to kiss those $300 television goodbye?OBAMA: Well, look, I mean, I think Chris and Joe made a good point, which is, we have laws on the books now that aren’t being enforced. This is what I mean, in terms of us negotiating more effectively with them.Part of the problem is that the relationship has shifted overtime. Joe is absolutely right that they were much more impoverished 10, 20 years ago.And so, our general attitude was, You know what? What ever they send in, it doesn’t really impact us that much and they’re a poor country.MODERATOR: But what would you do to level the playing field?OBAMA: Things have now shifted, so -- well, I’ll just give you an example.I would say toys cannot come in. Food, we will have our own safety inspectors on the ground.Japan does this right now. They set up their own inspection standards in China and they say, Unless you meet our inspection standards, you cannot ship into here.If we don’t have labor agreements and environmental agreements that are enforceable, then there are consequences, in terms of them being able to import into this country.The point is is that we have a set of tools available to us that have not been used. And part of the reason is because when we talk about Chinese exports, oftentimes, we are talking about U.S. companies...BIDEN: Exactly right.OBAMA: ... that have moved to China, are manufacturing there and are trying to ship back and they still have influence.OBAMA: And those special interests have to be diminished in their voice in Washington.MODERATOR: Thank you, Senator.Senator Edwards?EDWARDS: I want to expand on a point that Joe made, and he mentioned it and it was important, which is, what’s happened is big corporate America is driving American policy with respect to China. They get their way and the American people lose.This is only one place that that happens, by the way.MODERATOR: So what would you do to stand up to U.S. manufacturers?EDWARDS: There are a bunch of things we need to do. We have country-of-origin labeling laws. They’ve been in place for years. But we don’t enforce them.MODERATOR: But we also know that China can easily get around that. They can sometimes use the Made in Hong Kong label instead of the Made in China label.EDWARDS: But the starting place is to actually enforce the laws that exist here in the United States and their obligations in the WTO, neither of which are being done.They’re not being done because corporate America drives so much of what happens in Washington, whether it’s trade policy that cost Americans millions of jobs -- NAFTA, CAFTA, et cetera, whether it is the dangerous Chinese toys coming into the United States of America, whether is is country-of-origin labeling -- why is the president of the United States not saying to the American people, to local communities, Buy local ?It is good for the local economy. It is good for farmers. It is good on the issue of global warming, because everything that comes from China carries an enormous carbon footprint with it.MODERATOR: Steve, indulge me for just a minute. Your patience for just a minute.MODERATOR: Sure. Go right ahead.MODERATOR: I’m just curious. You mentioned these Chinese toys, Senator Edwards. You have two small children.EDWARDS: Yes.MODERATOR: Will you be buying toys that are made in China to place under the Christmas tree this year?EDWARDS: No, ma’am, I will not.(CROSSTALK)MODERATOR: It’s difficult to do that, because, you know, 70 percent of the goods and most of the toys that you find at the local Wal-Mart (NYSE:WMT) are made in China.EDWARDS: My kids will not have toys coming from China.(CROSSTALK)(LAUGHTER)DODD: My toys are coming from Iowa.(LAUGHTER)DODD: I’m buying Iowa toys. They’re going to eat Iowa foods.(LAUGHTER)(CROSSTALK)MODERATOR: Senator Obama, and then Senator Gravel.Senator Obama first on this issue of Chinese toys.OBAMA: As I said before, the problem is that we are not using the power that we have. And we just had -- I can’t amplify this point enough. Right now, laws, with respect to China, are being made in part with the interests of Wall Street in mind and special interests who are manufacturing in China, used to manufacture here in Iowa -- now are manufacturing in China -- are shipping the goods back here and taking advantage of cheap labor and lower environmental standards.We have to have a president -- and this is part of the reason I’m running for president, is to give a voice to American workers. I believe in trade. And I think trade can strengthen America.And I want, by the way, Chinese workers and consumers to benefit. That’s good for our long-term security. But I don’t want every single trade decision to be looked at through the lens of, does this increase corporate profits, as opposed to, is it good for U.S. consumers and U.S. workers?MODERATOR: Senator Gravel, and then Steve has a question.GRAVEL: Yes, Michele, I want to take you to task, credit to your first rhetoric. And that was this great, tremendous...MDOERATOR: I believe it was a question.GRAVEL: Right. The tremendous increase in the defense.There are only 10 percent of American defense.GRAVEL: They haven’t had a tremendous increase -- 10 percent of our defense.And I want to take all of them to task. Clearly, none of them are running for China -- president of China, because this amount of demagoguery is shameful.Here, the Chinese people have a problem. And when we continue this rhetoric of beggar thy neighbor, where our interests always come first, there should be the interest of human beings, the interest of human beings -- because, when you have a foreign policy that’sbeggar thy neighbor, we all become beggars.And so when they talk about the currency of China, what about what manipulations we do?What about the American companies that dump things abroad?MODERATOR: Senator Gravel, thank you.GRAVEL: What about the tariffs? You want to have a...MODERATOR: Thank you.GRAVEL: Thank you.(LAUGHTER)MODERATOR: I just want to wrap up Dan Frummelt’s (ph) trade-off that he discussed, the $300 TVs versus the $600 TVs.Is any of you willing to state frankly that, if you do what you’re talking about, getting tough on the currency, cracking down on what Senator Dodd called slave labor, taking other steps, that Americans are going to pay more for consumer goods at Wal-Mart (NYSE:WMT) and you believe it’s worth it?Is anyone willing to state frankly that that is the trade-off?MODERATOR: Congressman Kucinich?KUCINICH: Either buy America or bye-bye America. We have to recognize that. And a Kucinich administration will rebuild American industry.And while I’m listening to this debate right here, I’m the only one up here who voted against China trade. My good friend John Edwards who is a friend of mine, you know, he voted for it and is now decrying what’s come over.I’m saying that it is critical that we rebuild America’s industry, that we not get in an arms race with China, that we have new trade laws, based on workers’ rights, human rights, environmental quality, that we take a new direction with respect to environmental policy, getting China away from nuclear, coal and oil.I mean, we should be able to have solid relations with China, but we’ve got to get our own house in order, stop the speculation on Wall Street, and stop Wall Street from moving our jobs out of this country.And that’s what the China trade vote was all about.MODERATOR: Senator Obama, is that the trade-off: that people will have to pay higher prices if we do what we propose, and that’s worth it in your view?OBAMA: I actually believe that China will modify its behavior if we actually are tough in our negotiations. Look, we are the biggest market for China. They can’t afford to just say, See you later. They’re going to have to sell here. If we tell them you have to meet certain safety standards, that you have to enforce certain labor and environmental agreements, they will meet them.Now, could there potentially be some higher costs on the front end? Probably, but I guarantee you, I don’t meet a single worker in Iowa who’s been laid-off who says, I wouldn’t rather pay a little bit more for sneakers at Wal-Mart (NYSE:WMT) but still have a job.MODERATOR: Now listen, just quickly, I want to bring another listen into this, because we did get some questions from the listeners. And I want to hear from Karen Zuech (ph). She is a listener. She is also mother. So let’s take a quick listen.QUESTION: As the mom of 1-year-old son, I am very concerned about the toxic chemicals that lace many toys and others products sold in America. These chemical agents cause cancer, birth defects and genetic damage.Unlike the European Union, the U.S. does nothing to limit the use of these agents, and does not require that the toxic ingredients are listed.If you are elected president, what changes will you make to ensure that my son will grow up free from these frightening dangers?MODERATOR: Karen Zuech (ph) there. She’s from Santa Cruz, California. She’s pointing out that the European Union has stricter standards. But if you look at the Chinese recalls in this country, they still represent fewer than one one-hundredth of all of the toys and products that come into this country.Is it possible that the U.S. could overreact to this? I’m posing this to Senator Clinton. What’s the danger of that?CLINTON: Well, first, I really sympathize with the young mother, because we don’t do anywhere near enough to try to prevent dangerous materials and products from coming into our country. We don’t even do enough of it within our own country. We have totally turned our back on the information that is available to try to better track the impact on children and others of these kinds of exposures to toxic materials.So, number one, we need tougher standards across the board; something I’ve been advocating for for years.Number two, it should be especially applied to any kind of imports, and the requires going and making sure that we have inspectors on the ground and we have tough standards and we exercise recalls.You know, the reason we have such few recalls, even though they have been increasing, because the evidence has been so overwhelming, is because this administration has basically de-fanged the Consumer Product Safety Commission, they do not have any real appetite for going after these companies and countries that are flooding our markets with dangerous products, and that has to stop.MODERATOR: We only have just a few -- a very short time, Senator Dodd, but I just want to ask you, because you’ve served in the Senate for some time, given the concerns about currency manipulation, product recalls, is there any vote that you would look back at and think, You know, I really wish I could reconsider that ?DODD: No, no. I wish the Senate would have reconsidered when I offered legislation on lead paint, for instance, here to try and reduce the kind of problems that Karen has talked about.I have a child that has serious food allergies here. I know what it’s like every day to read a label every single day because my child could die if she consumed the wrong products here.Eighty percent of the food we consume in this country’s imported and only 1 percent of it is inspected. And there’s no country of labeling on those products here. And you’ll have 10 different descriptions of an egg here, and that’s very difficult, if not impossible, for women like Karen. And parents who have children have to be careful about the products they consume.MODERATOR: OK. We’re going to have to leave this part of our discussion right there. We’ll take a break for just a few minutes, then we will continue with the second hour of our Democratic presidential debate from Des Moines.This is special coverage from NPR News. (BREAK)MODERATOR: Every modern president as faced a delicate balancing act with China.And this is how one listener, Pen Pen Wong (ph), of Venice, California, put it.Let’s listen.(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)QUESTION: Many presidential candidates have talked tough about China and its human rights record in the past but, in the end, favor secure our economic interests, rather than risk upsetting China by substantively talking about the human rights issue.China is given a free pass to go at her own pace.How would you balance human rights and trade with China?(END AUDIO CLIP)MODERATOR: Senator Biden, I’d like to begin with you. What kind of human rights commitment should the U.S. try to exact from China, particularly in advance of the 2008 Olympics, and how do you ensure that the country would actually live up to those commitments?BIDEN: You can’t ensure it. But, look, this is all about playing by the rules. I have been pushing, as chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, for the last seven years -- or of the ranking member during that period -- that we hold China accountable at the United Nations.We won’t even, at the United Nations -- we won’t even designate China as a violator of human rights.Now, what’s the deal there? We’re talking about competition. That’s the -- in terms of trade. It’s capitulation, not competition.Name me another country in the world that we would allow to conduct themselves the way this country has, China, and not call them to -- on the carpet at the U.N.Name me another country in the world who would use the trade practices they use with us that we would not call them on the carpet.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.MODERATOR: So, Senator Biden, are you saying that would call them on the carpet, that you would...BIDEN: Absolutely.MODERATOR: ... appoint a U.N. ambassador who would press for this?BIDEN: And the reason I would is that it’s the one way to get China to reform. You can’t close your eyes. You can’t pretend. It is self-defeating. It’s a Hobson’s choice we’re giving people here.MODERATOR: A Hobson’s choice is how Senator Biden characterized this.Senator Clinton, what kind of commitment should we try to exact from China?CLINTON: Well, I agree with Joe very much. You know, 12 years ago, I went to China and the Chinese didn’t want me to come. And they didn’t want me to make a speech.And when I made the speech, they blocked it out from being heard within China, where I stood up for human rights and, in particular, women’s rights, because women had been so brutally abused in many settings in China.And I think you do have to call them on it. I mean, the Chinese respect us if we actually call them on their misbehavior and their breaches of human rights, economic activities and other kinds of problems that we have with them.That’s what I object to about this administration. We’ve gotten the worst of both worlds. We’ve gotten neither the kind of smart enforcement nor the kind of cooperation that might lead to changes in behavior. Instead, we have this erratic, incoherent policy.So I think it’s important that as the next president I would make it very clear what we expect from China and use every tool at our disposal to try to change behavior.MODERATOR: Just a quick follow: When you traveled to China and then when you returned to the White House, did you advise your husband on Chinese foreign policy or on foreign policy in regard to any other countries that you traveled to?And, conversely, if you were elected president, would he advise you?CLINTON: Well, I certainly did. I not only advised, I often met with he and his advisers, both in preparation for, during and after. I traveled with representatives from the Security Council, the State Department, occasionally the Defense Department and even the CIA.So I was deeply involved in being part of the Clinton team, in the first Clinton administration.And I am someone who wants the best possible advice from as many different sources as possible. And that would certainly include my husband.MODERATOR: Senator Dodd?DODD: Well, I think there’s an ongoing situation. I want to commend, at this point here, people like Nancy Pelosi and others who, just recently, when the Dalai Lama was here, presented him with a gold medal. We raised the issue, not often enough, on Tibet and what’s happened with the almost-genocidal behavior, when dealing with this remarkable culture that’s been under assault.And the idea that we’d recognize him and welcome him here as a religious leader in the world is exactly the kind of symbol we need to send.We’re talking here about a lot of things we would do to be tougher in China. It’s also important to understand a balance is necessary here. China is acquiring massive natural resources, that you raised earlier, around the world.They have huge energy issues. Twenty-five million people a year move from rural China to urban China. We ought to be working with them in various areas on energy policy, environmental policy as well.So I don’t want this to be seen, as we discuss this today here, only just about the acrimonious or the difficult or the tough positions we’re going to take, but to make them recognize that the Dalai Lama is an international religious leader who’s worthy of recognition.And if they, as they apparently did, threaten to deny some ships to be able to move in waters off China over that, they need to understand this isn’t going to change in a Democratic administration.MODERATOR: Senator Edwards, with all this tough talk about China, how do you actually hold them accountable?EDWARDS: You hold them accountable in the WTO. America uses its diplomacy and economic leverage. We have enormous leverage with the Chinese.And I want to add on to one thing that Chris just said. This whole issue of balance, if you look at what’s happened -- and this didn’t just happen under George Bush; this has been going on for a decade and a half now -- in my home town, the mill that my father worked in, the people that I grew up with, that mill’s closed now. The jobs are gone.The same thing has happened in Newton, Iowa, and all across this state. I met a man named Doug Bishop a few years ago who talked about having to look his child in the eye and explain why her daddy, who had worked in that mill his entire life -- that factory -- had lost his job and hadn’t done anything wrong, because his child did not understand.American trade policy is catering to the interests of big corporate America. It has been for a decade and a half. And we desperately need a president of the United States who instead of asking is this going to help corporate profits, is this actually going to stand up for American workers and American jobs?MODERATOR: Robert has a question, but just quickly, I just heard you say that America has enormous leverage. My first question when we began this discussion on China, you said that America did not have enough leverage.EDWARDS: Oh, no, I didn’t. No, I said we have more leverage than they do. We do. I think everybody actually agrees with that.But our leverage is economic, our leverage is diplomatic. And we have leverage within the WTO, which Senator Biden and others have spoken about.But we have not held China accountable. And the result is the loss of American jobs, the struggling of American families, the struggles of the middle class.Those jobs helped support the middle-class and build the middle-class in this country. And as we’ve already talked about, dangerous Chinese products coming into the United States.MODERATOR: So diminished, but significant.QUESTION: Senator, there’s an implication to what you just said. The textile -- that the United States become once again a major power in textile production, and industry we associate with low-wage emerging economies.Isn’t it fair to think that, no matter what our relationship with China, obviously poorer countries are going to be producing a lot of textiles in mills around the world; it’s just not what our economy should be specializing in at this time?EDWARDS: What is fair to think is that we have had a trade policy that has cost America. My father, who worked in a mill for 37 years so that I could be -- and my brother and sister could have a better life than he had. And that mill that he worked in is gone.Jobs all across Iowa are gone. And the reason is because America has catered to the interest of corporate profits; not the interests of the American middle class, not the interests of American workers, and not the interests of these manufacturing jobs.Are there other things we need to do? Of course there are. America, to be competitive over the long-term, needs a trade policy that works that looks out for the interest of the middle class. But it also needs -- America needs -- to be the most creative, best educated, most innovative work force on the planet.Those two things are not mutually exclusive. They can both be done at the same time.MODERATOR: Thank you, very much. Senator Obama, I just want to return to the question of currency manipulation.You had said that if China is actually manipulating their currency, this country needs to take them to the mat. What, exactly, did you mean by that?OBAMA: Well, we have legislation that says that if, in fact, they are manipulating their currency -- and I think there’s no dispute that they are -- that we need to take strong action. It’s in the Banking Committee. Chris is presiding over that.And now here’s the problem. I will say that it’s actually a blunt tool. I’d prefer not doing this legislatively. The problem is we’ve had a president that has shown no leadership on it.So, if and when I am in the White House, I will meet directly with the Chinese leadership and indicate we have to restore balance. And, by the way, we have to mobilize our allies, such as the European Union, to have that conversation with us.This is an imbalance that is not good for any economy over time. It’s not sustainable, the trade imbalances that we have.But just to go to a point that was made earlier, so often we see these issues as contradictory.Mike Gravel, I am interested, as I said, in making sure that the Chinese population is fed and clothed and advancing. I think that is important.It is not, I think, in the long-term interests of China to expand, solely on the backs of low-wage work that is undermining U.S. work.If we are saying to China, Raise your labor standards, that will, over time, improve the lot of Chinese workers, as well as U.S. workers. And that’s what we should be looking at, is: How can we improve the working conditions, the safety conditions, the consumer protections that are available for all people? And that’s not what’s happening right now.MODERATOR: Senator Obama, thank you.Senator Biden, very quickly.BIDEN: Look, first of all, I don’t buy this being -- why you’re being so tough on China. Would we do any of these things with regard to France or Germany or England, our friends, our allies? The answer is: We would.MODERATOR: Do you think it’s an analogous situation?BIDEN: No, I think it is not.Look, if France was acting like China is acting, we’d be tough with them. If England was doing what China is doing we’d be tough with them. This is about being fair.And by the way, to deal with the currency, back in ’88, we had the same deal. And what happened, we had a thing called the Plaza Accords. We brought in all of the major currencies in the world to sit down and say we’ve got to rationalize the currency here.Us doing it by ourselves is the ultimate blunt instrument.We may be able to do that. But were I president, I’d be calling a similar conference, bringing in the rest of the world to rationalize our currencies here.MODERATOR: I just want to turn to something that Senator Clinton said. You said that China reacts if they are pressed.So would we believe that -- should we believe that the relationship, the U.S. relationship with China, under a Hillary Clinton administration, would be less one of cooperation and engagement and one more akin to confrontation?CLINTON: No. No, absolutely not. It would be a position where we would operate from strength, with a coherent policy about what our interests were and what we hoped to achieve. I’ll give you a quick example. I have a company in my state that has exported into China for many years.All of a sudden, out of the blue, they were told that they were going to start having tariffs slapped on their product that would have made it absolutely uncompetitive for them to compete.Their alternative was to go into business with some Chinese company, more than likely some kind of front group for the People’s Army, and therefore lose their intellectual property.And so I helped them stand up to that. And they respected it and backed down.MODERATOR: Thank you. That’s where we’re going to have to end our discussion of China. We could have gone on, but thanks to all the candidates.We’ll continue in just a minute with our Democratic presidential debate.MODERATOR: The other day, an Iowa voter advised us of a big campaign issue. He called it the M word -- M-igration.The so-called M word is our next topic.What obligations do American citizens have when it comes to illegal immigrants?And let’s start with Senator Obama.Would you expect Americans, if you’re president, January 2009, immigration reform, whatever you want hasn’t happened yet, would you expect Americans to turn in illegal immigrants when they come across?OBAMA: We do not deputize the American people to do the job that the federal government is supposed to do. So as president of the United States, I will make sure that the federal government does what it’s supposed to do, which is to do a better job of closing our borders and preventing hundreds of thousands of people to pour in, have much tougher enforcement standards when it comes to employers, and create a pathway of citizenship for the 12 million people who are already here.MODERATOR: So does that mean that Americans should not turn in illegal immigrants?OBAMA: The point is that we are not going to have -- we’re not going to deputize a whole bunch of American citizens to start grabbing people or turning them in, in part because the ordinary American citizen may not know whether or not this person is illegal or not.Now, we should be holding employers accountable, because they have a mechanism whereby they can actually enforce.But, you know, the notion that we’re going to criminalize priests, for example, or doctors who are providing services to individuals, and throw them in jail for doing what their calling asks them to do, which is to provide help and service to people in need, I think that is a mistake. I think that’s out of America’s character.MODERATOR: I’m going to get to several candidates on this.Senator Dodd, let’s say that you’re hiring a nanny. Perhaps you’ve had this experience.DODD: No, I haven’t, actually.MODERATOR: Well, let’s say that you have...DODD: Nice try.(LAUGHTER)MODERATOR: ... for your kids.Let’s say that a citizen is hiring a nanny.DODD: Check it out, very thoroughly. Yes.MODERATOR: A working parent.Well, that’s the question. You interview of applicants. They all seem very nice. They seem like they would take care of the kids. But it would appear that their documents may not be in order.What would you want an American to do?DODD: Well, I think you’ve got an obligation here to go beyond that if you have any doubts or questions here. People who knowingly hire undocumented workers I think need to be held accountable to a far higher degree of penalties -- civil and possibly criminal, if, in fact, it’s widespread -- because these are the things that are going to slow down -- the 400,000 to 500,000 people who come here each year.You know, I understand -- look, I think this debate has to begin some place. I’m very worried about the fear and hate-mongers out there who are going to divide this country very terribly on this subject matter.We’ve been a welcoming people for the entire history of our nation here. There were exceptions in the 19th century with the know- nothings and at the end of World War I, which were dangerous periods here.But, obviously, any self-respecting country has to control its borders and has to impose penalties that would otherwise attract people to come here; understanding why they want to be here, but also understanding our capacity and ability to handle this.That’s why I’ve taken the strong position here of doing whatever we can on both sides of the border, and I’ve worked at this for a long time. For 20 years, I’ve chaired the inter-parliamentary with Mexico. I speak the language fluently.We have a large percentage of people coming from Latin America. We passed the CAFTA trade agreement here. You want to go right to the heart of these things here.We allowed every single country under CAFTA to be able to set its own labor standard. Exactly what happens is businesses locate there and race to the bottom.Instead of improving the quality of working conditions that would give people in these countries a chance to stay in their own nations, which most of them would prefer to do, we’re encouraging people to come here by not having trading agreements that don’t insist upon...MODERATOR: We’re going to talk more about those issues as we go along here.But, sticking with real people, Congressman Kucinich, the real person in that situation, what should they do?KUCINICH: Rely on the Constitution.You know, we don’t -- we don’t encourage vigilantism in this country. We have a Constitution. We have due process. We have equal protection. We have habeas corpus.This administration would like to shred the Constitution and deny people all those rights. But when we get into that, what we do, we take the path of denying constitutional rights, and we’re back to Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo and all those other violations of rights that we’re ashamed of now.And I’m saying that we have to realize that these are economic refugees from NAFTA. You know, I’ve said it over and over -- cancel NAFTA, negotiate a new trade agreement with Mexico based on worker’s rights, human rights, environmental quality principles.Give a path to legalization for the people who have been here. You can’t send them home willy-nilly. You have to have a way in which our immigration policy resonates with the deeper principles of inclusiveness in America, as symbolized by our Statute of Liberty.MODERATOR: We may get to NAFTA as well, time permitting.I want to play a bit of tape, though, of Amy Vybiral. She’s at the Marshalltown Education and Training Center, so she’s somebody who deals with this in real time. And here’s the policy that she follows as an English as a second language institution, teaching immigrants.(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)QUESTION: I don’t know their status. And I don’t -- we don’t ask.Let me put it this way, we ask a Social Security number of everybody who enters. And we require it of no one. So it’s not a prerequisite to attend the college. (END AUDIO CLIP)MODERATOR: Senator Clinton, if you’re president in January of 2009, is don’t ask/don’t tell, which is a way you could characterize her policy there -- is that appropriate for people in institutions that receive government funding?CLINTON: Well, I agree with what Barack and Chris and Dennis have already said. It’s the failure of the federal government that puts people like Amy into this position.I do not think we should be criminalizing her or expecting her to enforce the broken laws of our federal immigration system.In fact, I spoke out very strongly against an effort that was undertaken in the House of Representatives to do just that, to basically say, anyone who offered aid, comfort, or any kind of service to someone in need who turned out to be an illegal immigrant was going to face criminal penalties.That is not in keeping with who we are as Americans. What is in keeping is having a government fulfill its responsibilities. That would be my highest priority, and that’s what I would attempt to achieve with comprehensive immigration reform.QUESTION: Although, if a citizen witnessed some other kind of crime, wouldn’t you want them to report it?CLINTON: Well, you know, it’s a very clever question, but I think it really begs the question. Because what we’re looking at here is 12 million to 14 million people. They live in our neighborhoods. They take care of our elderly parents. They probably made the beds in the hotels that some of us stayed in last night.They are embedded in our society. If we want to listen to the demagogues and the calls for us to begin to try to round up people and turn every American into a suspicious vigilante, I think we will do graver harm to the fabric of our nation than any kind of person-by- person reporting of someone who might be here illegally.I reject that.I think again, you have to look at the failure of the federal government and the failure of our political system to make a change in how we should be enforcing our immigration laws, and that’s what I will try to do.MODERATOR: Senator Biden?BIDEN: I’d like to make a distinction here. And I agree with Hillary on this. What Amy, as I understood the question, is doing is providing a service there to children.There’s 1.8 million children here.MODERATOR (?): Many adults as well. People learning English as a second language...BIDEN: Well, I just assumed she was talking about children. There’s a distinction, quite frankly, between providing a service and providing for you being able to make money by hiring someone you can hire cheaply in order to be able to make your business grow. I find a moral distinction there, number one.Number two, as a single parent for five years, after my wife and daughter were killed, raising two kids -- I went through, out of necessity, trying to figure out how to get a nanny to help me out. Thank god I had my sister and my mother.But I went through that, to try to relieve them.Guess what? Most of the illegals that came to seek a job with me, they did not speak Spanish. They were from Ireland, England. They were from Germany. They were from Poland.The majority of the people here undocumented, 60 percent, are not Spanish speaking. They’ve overstayed their visas.MODERATOR: You used the same figure at the Brown and Black Forum on Saturday, but the Pew Research Center has estimated this, that in fact 56 percent of the illegal immigrants are from Mexico and 22 percent from other Latin American countries. Aren’t the vast majority of the people here in fact Spanish speakers?DODD: They are.BIDEN: Well, Chris tells me they are. The data I received was that the total amount of people who are here undocumented, and the people overstaying their visas, were people who are not from Latin America.Chris knows more about this than...DODD: I think both of you are right. The Pew statistics I think more recent arrivals, and that number is higher coming from Latin America. Overall, Joe’s point, the people going back years here, would include a larger number coming from non-Latin American countries.So both numbers may be accurate. Just depends how you frame it.BIDEN: But the point is, the idea here is that it seems to me there’s an obligation on the part of an employer who is seeking someone to work for him or her to know whether or not that opportunity is being given first to an American, before they hire someone here who is legal or illegal -- I mean, excuse me, who is illegal. I mean...MODERATOR: Just a yes or no question before we go on, Senator.Those Irish people and others, illegal immigrants, you interviewed. Did you hire one?BIDEN: Did not hire one. Absolutely not.MODERATOR: You found someone legal?BIDEN: I found -- I didn’t find anyone. I thank God for my sister.And by the way, you may remember, I’m the guy that reminded the former administration that Zoe Baird was a little bit of a problem, if you may remember.MODERATOR: Let me move on to Senator Edwards, if I might.Senator Edwards, in a recent debate, you said, as I’m sure you’ve said many times, that illegal workers are exploited, that they’re paid less, if they try to report problems, they’re asked about their immigration status.But you have also said that you do not believe that illegal immigration is driving down wages. If they’re being paid less, how can they not be driving down wages?EDWARDS: What I’ve actually said is there have been some serious academic studies done on this question. And the studies are not the same. They have not reached the same conclusions.I think that there is -- there is some confusion in the work that’s been done -- the research that’s been done on this question.But what I’ve also described are some of the things that I’ve seen firsthand. The town -- the small town that I grew up in in North Carolina is now about half Latino, Hispanic.I did a poverty tour earlier this year that began in New Orleans, but I also went through Mississippi. And in Canton, Mississippi, I met with a group of workers who worked at a poultry plant there, largely Hispanic.And the abuses that they described to me were extraordinary. There was a man there who had been injured on the job, had his back broken, literally, on the job, and was told by the company doctor that it was just a generic condition and there was nothing they could do for him.And what I consistently heard from the workers -- I’ve heard this all over the place -- is they’re not being paid in many cases for the work that they’ve done; not being paid overtime; not being paid, in many cases, the minimum wage.And if they raise any question about it, the first question the employer asks is, What is your status?MODERATOR: Well, how are they not driving down wages for everybody else if that’s the case?EDWARDS: Well, I think what the studies show is there are a lot of things driving down wages in the United States of America. One of those things, which I hope we have time to talk more about is the loss of good middle-class jobs, which has been accelerated under this administration but didn’t begin under this administration.And I think there are a variety of things that are contributing to that. And the great issue facing the next president -- and it will be facing me as president -- is: What do we do to strengthen and grow the middle class?And there are a whole range of things that we need to do, if we actually want to save the middle class and strengthen the American economy.MODERATOR: I just want to follow up, Senator Edwards, on something that you said. I’ve had the pleasure at a debate setting in front of you twice within the last week. And, at the debate on Saturday, you noted that undocumented immigrants are punished if they complain about unsafe conditions, if they speak up. And you noted that these workers would have rights, they would be looked after in an Edwards administration.What rights do immigrants have if they’re working without proper authorization?EDWARDS: Well, the answer to this is not a short-term solution. I wish there were a clear short-term solution that would be effective.The answer to this is comprehensive immigration reform. That is ultimately the answer.MODERATOR: But until you get to that point, if workers don’t have proper identification, proper authorization, what rights would they have under your administration.EDWARDS: They’re in a very vulnerable position. And what we want to make certain, and that we would do in my administration, is that we are enforcing the laws that apply to employers. People in this discussions have talked about enforcing the responsibilities of employers not to hire undocumented workers. That’s true, and that is a responsibility, and I would do that as president until we had comprehensive immigration reform.But we can’t continue to allow -- in my state we have agricultural workers who are being taken advantage of and abused, and in many cases living in horrid, horrid conditions.MODERATOR: Senator, I’m just going to try this one more time. How would you, quote, take care of them?EDWARDS: Well...MODERATOR: What rights would they have?EDWARDS: What we would do is we’d use the power of the federal government and the power of our regulatory agencies to ensure that these people are not being abused.Like the -- I’ll give a specific example: the poultry workers that I met in Canton, Mississippi. We would make certain that their work conditions were safe. We’d make certain that they’re in fact being paid for the work that they’re doing; if they’re working overtime, that they’re being paid for their overtime.Those are all things that we would do in my administration.MODERATOR: Senator Obama, then Congressman Kucinich?OBAMA: Well, look, this requires leadership. I believe that there are circumstances where, in fact, illegal immigrants are driving down wages.The question is: How do we fix it? Because, oftentimes, when it’s posed that way, then the thinking is that somehow we have to pit low-wage American workers versus low-wage immigrant workers.My answer is to stop illegal workers from coming in, hold employers accountable, but give the 12 million people who are here illegally, many of whom have been here for years, many of whom have U.S. citizens for children, to make sure that they’ve got a pathway to legalization.If we do that, then they do have right that they can access.MODERATOR: What about January 2009 -- still millions of illegals -- would you let them work? Would you encourage them to work?Would you give them rights as they work?OBAMA: No, no, no, no. I think that, if they’re illegal, then they should not be able to work in this country. That is part of the principle of comprehensive reform -- that we’re going to crack down on employers who are hiring them and taking advantage of them.But I also want to give them a pathway so that they can earn citizenship, earn a legal status, start learning English, pay a significant fine, go to the back of the line, but they can then stay here and they can have the ability to enforce a minimum wage that they’re paid, make sure the worker safety laws are available, make sure that they can join a union.MODERATOR: Congressman Kucinich, would you let people work in January 2009 if you’re president?KUCINICH: Absolutely. I mean, you know, we have to recognize that many of them have continued to work in providing services. We have to get them a path to legalization.But you raised the question -- the question is: Are they driving wages down? The passage of NAFTA helped drive wages down. Wall Street speculation, ending in closing plants, have driven wages down. Non-productive military spending drives wages down.What your panel here is conjuring is taking -- is the same approach that the Bush administration has sued in denying any kind of rights at all to so-called enemy non-combatants.And I say that a Kucinich administration, everyone who’s in this country or within the reach of this country, has to be accorded constitutional rights that would be accorded to anyone else, because that’s what we stand on.This is one of the reasons why I am pursuing impeachment against the vice president, because he’s trashed the Constitution.MODERATOR: Former Senator Gravel?GRAVEL: This has become obvious in this discussion; that there has to be a reason why, over the last 15 years we haven’t solved this problem as a nation.Stop and think. Our unemployment level is about 4.5, and that’s about as low as you can get it. So where is the problem? We have to have people fill these jobs. They come in and fill these jobs. We call them illegal.Are they illegal? They’re filling jobs that need to be done. If we were to chase them out, aren’t we playing to the nativist, the crazies who are opposed to anybody coming in since they got here?And the media plays into this. The Congress plays into this. Just open our doors. When the jobs are there to be filled, they’ll come in. The jobs aren’t there, they’ll go home.We can deal with all these other problems in trade, but we’re making a mountain out of a mole hill. We’re creating laws. We’re trying to deal with this.Deal with the obvious. We do not seem, as a nation, to be able to solve this problem the way we’ve been approaching it.MODERATOR: Senator Mike Gravel, Former Senator Mike Gravel, thanks very much.A couple of other candidates had their hands up, but we are approaching a break here so let me assure you that we will continue a bit more on this topic after the break.You are listening to the NPR Democratic candidates’ debate from Des Moines. We’re going to take a break of about a minute. This is special coverage from NPR News. (BREAK)MODERATOR: Let’s start right back in with Senator Clinton, who had her hand up before.And I do want to ask about a very similar topic, Senator. You said in a debate on Saturday night that you support people who are, as you put it, Yes, undocumented, but also working hard, trying to support their families. That’s why they’re here.In the same answer, you said you want to crack down on employers.Is there a contradiction there? If you crack down on employers, doesn’t that mean you’re telling employers to put these hard-working people, as you define them, out of work?CLINTON: No, there is no contradiction. You know, comprehensive immigration reform means five things. You have to have tough border security plus a system of knowing who’s here and what they’re doing.Secondly, you’ve got to crack down on employers, because people wouldn’t come if there weren’t a job waiting for them.Third, you’ve got to provide more help to local communities to be able to bear the cost, because they don’t set immigration policy.Fourth, you do have to do what Chris Dodd is talking about, and that is, try to create some economic activity by working with the countries to our south.But, fifth, you’ve got to have a path toward legalization.And I’m in favor of all of that.MODERATOR: But granted that...CLINTON: And I just want to...MODERATOR: But granting that it may take a while to do that...CLINTON: Well, yes, it will. But let’s put this in context, because, you know, sometimes we talk about these issues as though they’re stove piped.Part of the reason we’re having this contentious, demagogic debate right now about immigration is because the economy is not performing for average Americans.Yes, the reported unemployment rate is 4.7 percent. But the labor force participation rate has fallen dramatically. That means people have given up looking for work.There is no effort to try to ease the transitions that do happen in any economy.You know, I traveled this country extensively during the 1990s. I did not hear this kind of contentious debate. Why? Because we had 22.7 million new jobs. People’s incomes were rising. They felt like there was plenty of opportunity to go around.Now, Americans feel like they’re standing on a trapdoor.MODERATOR: Granting that you want to do several things, it appears from the reality of the moment that the easy thing to do is to crack down. Everything else is hard and may take a while.January 2009, as I’ve asked other candidates, are you going to crack down on employers, given that that may harm people you’ve defined as hard-working?CLINTON: I will crack down on employers. I will do all five things that I just outlined. But I think it’s important to look at where this debate is often taken to such an extreme, because you’ll hear the voices of those saying, Deport people. Round them up.That is absolutely unrealistic, and it is not in keeping with American values.The best estimates I have is it would take about $200 billion over five years to round up 12 to 14 million people. It would takes tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands, of new law enforcement officials. It would take a convoy of 200,000 buses stretching 1,700 miles.People in America would be outraged at the loss of their privacy and the invasion of their homes and businesses.So we’ve got to do all five of the things, and I would start immediately to do that.MODERATOR: Senators Obama and Dodd, can you limit yourselves to 30 seconds each?Senator Obama?OBAMA: You’ve asked a couple of times, Are you going to crack down on January 1st, 2009?Listen, I will initiate the process immediately. But to get comprehensive reform, to get an employer-verification system that works is going to take some time, just the same way that a pathway to legalization is going to take some time.But what it takes is some leadership. Look, two years ago, I worked with about 10 other senators -- McCain, Kennedy, Graham -- an unlikely group -- Brownback -- and we put together a package that had everything that Senator Clinton and others have talked about.It had some provisions we didn’t like in it, but we were able to pass it with a significant majority in the Senate.But what you have not see over the last several years is leadership from the president to change the tone and to describe to the American people how we can be a nation of laws and a nation of immigrants.MODERATOR: Senator Dodd?DODD: Just a couple of points. And that point that Barack just made is very important. This is a failure of leadership by this administration to step in at critical moments when we could have gotten something done.We need to also recognize there are people at this very hour that are showing up at U.S. embassies all over the world who are seeking to come here through legal means, and we need to keep them in mind. If it looks as though they’re fools to be doing what they’re doing, because we’re creating virtually an amnesty program in this country, then you’re going to have an awful problem around the world.So we need to understand that.And, thirdly, this point. Look, let’s understand this. The Republicans, the extreme conservatives here, want this issue on the table. They don’t want to talk about the war in Iraq. They don’t want to talk about the failure of fiscal policies here at home. They don’t want to talk about what’s going on with health care in the country. So they’re going to use this issue as a wedge issue here to inflame the passions, the fears and hatreds of too many Americans.We’ve see it in the past in our country. It’s dangerous politics. And we need to describe it for what it is.MODERATOR: I’m sorry that we’re limited on time. We need to move on.MODERATOR: A question for Senator Edwards.If you’re elected president you’ll hear competing claims about H1B visas for highly skilled workers.People like Bill Gates will tell you we should have much, much more of them to bring in more highly skilled workers.Critics of that will say: No, the United States is training other countries’ engineers, and in fact those workers are working for less than American-trained specialists and engineers would.What would you do as president, expand H1B visas or scale them back?EDWARDS: Well, the first point is: Why is America not educating and training American workers to do these jobs?I mean, that’s the starting point.MODERATOR: Well, there are Americans who say that they are being trained for those jobs, but that they can’t compete with workers from India, who will work for 10 percent less.EDWARDS: And that’s the reason. If American workers are actually competent to do those jobs, American workers should be doing those jobs.The whole purpose of the H1B visa program is to bring people from other places who have to do jobs that we don’t have American workers to do.Now, I think there are two pieces to this. One is, if there are American workers who can do the jobs, they should be doing them, as I just said. And they will, when I’m president.Second, if we don’t have adequate American workers -- and this is the other side of the equation, what Bill Gates and others would argue, and I’ve heard the same arguments -- then that means America’s not doing its job of educating our young people.MODERATOR: But are you saying that, for you it’s a matter of fact-finding, to see which way you would go on H1B visas, or have you already made up your mind that they should be limited or they should be increased?EDWARDS: I believe that there are American workers who can do some of these jobs that people are being brought from other places to do. And I think those American workers, if they’re there and available, should be doing the jobs.But you’ve got to give my 30 more seconds on this. Because you can’ ignore the underlying issue. The underlying issue is, are we making it easier for kids to go to college?Are we driving our young people into engineering, science, and math, the very areas that we’re talking about?And are we doing it in a way that will strengthen the American economy over the long-term?Because if we don’t -- if we are not the most creative, best educated, most innovative workforce on the planet, it is very difficult for us to compete.MODERATOR: Senator Biden?BIDEN: Look, I’ve been working with this for a long time, as former chairman of the Judiciary Committee -- that’s where it comes out of. We have it about right now, except that the employers aren’t doing their part.You used the example of an Indian engineer who’d work less than an American engineer. The truth is they’re not allowed to hire based on that.They got offered the job. If there’s American there that will take the job, they can’t undercut it by hiring an Indian engineer who will work for less. That’s illegal. We’re not enforcing it.The second point I’d make is, you know, we make this all out to be so black and white. I’m the author of the Violence Against Women Act. It came to my attention not long -- it’s relevant, believe it or not.What happened? Immigrant women getting the living crap beat out of them; getting brutalized -- brutalized. And they’re afraid to come forward and acknowledge they’re being brutalized because they’ll be deported.So what we have to do, sometimes humanitarian needs trump -- trump immigration laws. So what did I do? I changed the law. My colleagues all voted for it.It’s now the law that a woman who comes forward of being beaten will be effectively immune from being deported so you can put the SOB who’s beating her in jail.So sometimes it trumps.Sometimes humanitarian needs trump an existing law relating to immigration like that.MODERATOR: Let me move on to another subject here because our time is quite short.DODD: Health care would be a good example of that as well.(CROSSTALK)(LAUGHTER)MODERATOR: Let me move on. We’re running shy of time here. And I’ll tell you, we’re going to do about five or six minutes on immigration, and then there’s one final question we’re going to throw to all of you and give you an opportunity on.We mentioned that we’ve been taking questions from listeners in recent weeks about this debate, and one is on a small issue that I think points to a large concern.It comes from Tally Wilson (ph) of Boone, North Carolina. And her concern has to do with those voicemail automated messages that you get if you call a government office or a business office, the ones that say, For English, press one; para Espanol, oprima numero dos.She says, Suddenly we’re asked what language we speak in our own country. Will you remove the question about what language we speak when we call any U.S. government office?Senator Obama.OBAMA: No. Because there are Spanish-speaking U.S. citizens who may not speak English well, and if they’re seeking help, for example, on some vital health care question or a senior citizen who immigrated here a long time ago, and they’re trying to get their Social Security check, I don’t want them to not be able to get those services.MODERATOR: Larger question here, to Senator Clinton, which is: Is this country gradually going to become more a Spanish-speaking country? And should we accept that?CLINTON: Well, there’s three different points here. First, we need to have English as a common, unifying language. It’s an important part of who we are and how we keep this big, diverse country of ours going.Secondly, as Barack said, there are a lot of Americans who are citizens who speak different languages. I represent New York City. I think there’s like 170 languages and dialects. The city would be in total chaos if people didn’t get some services and some, you know, help in the language that they actually understood.And, thirdly, you know, part of what the challenge here is is to make it clear that we do expect people who want to become legal in America to try to learn English. But that doesn’t mean that they have to give up the language that they originally had.But we have to do more with English as second language, more help in schools, to get people to be able to speak and comprehend English.MODERATOR: Congressman Kucinich?KUCINICH: I was able to defeat an English only proposal in the Ohio Senate years ago when I pointed out our state’s founding documents were in German.We need to have our children learn languages. I mean, what does this serve the other? Why are we separating ourselves from the possibility of being able to merge with the world. An insular and isolated America, doesn’t cut it. And so, what I’m talking about is rebuild our economy, do it confidently, and encourage the American people to work -- to reach out.My political philosophy -- I see the world as one. I see the world as being interconnected and interdependent and there being an imperative for human unity.And so we need to reach out and education is the way to do it. Let’s have our children learn languages and let’s grow our economy in a confident way: full employment economy, jobs for all, health care for all, not-for-profit health care for all.MODERATOR: Anybody here willing to say directly that immigration, because of the millions and millions of people involved, is going to change American culture as it has in the past? American is not going to be the same kind of place it is now.Senator Gravel?(CROSSTALK)GRAVEL: It always has been. All waves have changed our society. And it’s changed it for the good.MODERATOR: Senator Biden?BIDEN: Yes, it will change our culture. But they’ll speak English. Like every other large wave of immigrants, once they are bond with the second generation, they’ll all be speaking English.What’s the fear here? Give me an example where that hasn’t happened.MODERATOR: Senator Dodd?DODD: Dennis said something important. I believe -- and I’m probably maybe the only candidate here who speaks fluently a second language -- Bill Richardson isn’t here today...BIDEN: Stop bragging.DODD: The point is, you need to be, I think, enriching this. Paul Simon, a former colleague in the United States Senate, wrote a book called The Tongue Tied Americans.And understand, what I mentioned at the outset of this debate about having to run classified ads to find Arabic speakers at the time after 9/11 is an indication that we need to be talking more about that.And clearly, as Joe, as you said, this is a source of our wealth and richness, is this country. We have so benefited as a result of people who come here because of religious, political persecution, seeking a better life for their families.This has been a great source of strength for our country. We need to work with it, obviously, be practical about. But this is a source of pride in our country.MODERATOR: Senator Obama?DODD: Not something to be talked about in negative terms.MODERATOR: Senator Obama?OBAMA: I completely agree with Chris. Look, a Pew study just came out that shows the next generation; children of Spanish speakers, learn English.DODD: That’s right.OBAMA: You know, they’re going to do the same thing that every generation did, so we shouldn’t worry about this.But on the issue of legal immigration, I think an earlier point was made -- we have a broken legal immigration system that has to be expedited. That’s part of the problem that we’re seeing, whether it’s H1B visas or others. It’s too cumbersome, it’s often too expensive and unwieldy. That’s something I will do as part of comprehensive immigration reform.MODERATOR: That has to be the last word on immigration. We still have a few minutes left on the clock and we want to use it for one more question from voters. We were speaking to some Iowa voters on Saturday morning in Des Moines, and we received one question which we wanted to put to you all.The gentleman’s name is James Irwin. He is a Democrat, by the way.And we asked him, What are some things you want to know from the Democratic presidential candidates? , and this was his choice.QUESTION: What do you think the toughest choice you have left to make is? Is it gay marriage, immigration, the war in Iraq? What haven’t you made up you mind on yet, and why haven’t you?MODERATOR: We’ll go left to right, just the way we’ve introduced people.Senator Clinton, what is something you don’t know the answer to?CLINTON: Oh, there’s a lot things I don’t know the answer to.MODERATOR: Name one?CLINTON: Well, I mean, obviously, everything we started off talking about in the beginning of this debate.We’re going to have so much repair work to do around the world. What are the best ways to try to stabilize the very difficult problems we face, from Iran to China? And I have some very clear ideas about it, but I’m not going to sit here and say that I have the answers.MODERATOR: We’re going to have to go rather quickly. If you can name one specific thing, one specific thing.GRAVEL: I don’t have the answer to be able to persuade the American people that they are the solution, not their leaders. I wish I had the answer to convince them of that.MODERATOR: That’s Senator Mike Gravel, Former Senator Mike Gravel.Senator Obama?OBAMA: The issue of climate change. I’ve put forward one of the most aggressive proposals out there. But the science seems to be coming in indicating it’s accelerating even more quickly with every passing day, and by the time I take office I think we’re going to have to have a serious conversation about how drastic steps we need to take to address it.MODERATOR: Senator Dodd?DODD: I would say the single largest issue in many ways for us to grapple with is education, because it’s the heart of who we are, both in terms of our governance and economic strength in the future. And convincing everyone in the country the importance and the priority of that issue is something that I think is going to be critical to the success of our country in the 21st century.MODERATOR: Senator Biden?BIDEN: I know exactly what I’d do on those foreign policy issues, but, quite frankly, I think the toughest choice for me, the thing I’m most unsure about is how you rationalize competition in trade policy.I think that’s the single most difficult challenge that I will have as president.EDWARDS: Who I would choose as my vice president and whether...(LAUGHTER)... to consider any of these people sitting at the table with me?(LAUGHTER)MODERATOR: Anybody want to put in a resume or anything, at this time?No one seems to be very eager to grab that job at this time.EDWARDS: They will. They will.MODERATOR: But is there seriously -- is there seriously something that you’re wrestling with?EDWARDS: I think we have an enormous struggle to try to restore the power in the country and the democracy back to the American people, and take it away from big corporate interests, et cetera, who have taken over the democracy.MODERATOR: And you’re not sure...EDWARDS: I think there are many ways to do that. And I think the starting place is to galvanize America to do it. But I think it is central to what we need to do for America.MODERATOR: Congressman Kucinich?KUCINICH: I wrestle with the question as to whether or not the president and the vice president should be held liable for crimes for taking us unto a war based on lies.I mean, I’m ready to be president. I’ve been right all along on Iraq, on Iran, on not-for-profit health care, on giving our children a chance for an education from age three, all the way through...MODERATOR: Oh, come on. You know what you want to do on that. You want to -- you want to impeach people.KUCINICH: Listen. I’m ready to be president. I am president. And the standards -- I’m the only one here who has said that both President Bush and Vice President Cheney ought to be impeached for lying to the American people, not only to take us into war against Iraq, but now, this new development, with the national intelligence estimate.Tell us what our standards should be for the Oval Office. Tell us what standards -- I’m asking my colleagues here -- that you would expect to be obtained by anybody who would be president.Can you lie about a war? Is that OK?MODERATOR: Let me -- because we still have a few seconds left, I heard a number of specific answers.And I want to come back to you, Senator Clinton. You said there were a host of things that you don’t know the answers to. Would you like to name one, since your fellow candidates did, in general, name something in particular?CLINTON: Well, you know, I think that -- you know, when you are running for president, you do your very best to try to anticipate what the problems are going to be.I think we have such serious issues when it comes to the economy. I think we’re heading into some very turbulent waters on the economy. How are we going to balance what we need to do to perhaps stimulate our way out of some very difficult economic conditions, which are certainly being predicted now, at the same time getting back to making sure we don’t put the burden on the middle class?And I intend to have an economic policy that will get us through what I’m afraid we’re going to inherit from the Bush administration.MODERATOR: OK.Senator Clinton, Senator Gravel, Senator Obama, Senator Dodd, Senator Biden, Senator Edwards, Congressman Kucinich, that’s where we’ll have to leave it.Thank you very much to all of you. It’s been a great discussion. We appreciate it.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSAN DIEGO, June 29 — Ediberto Perez pedaled his bicycle out of a canyon shantytown in this border city’s northern outskirts where he and other migrant workers scratch out a living.“Until they dry up the jobs, they’re never going to secure the border,” Mr. Ladd said.The day after the Senate failed to move on a proposal for the broadest change in immigration law in two decades, it was a time to take stock of a debate that played out something like a neutron bomb: blasts of rhetoric, of speeches, marches and convulsing in Congress and on talk radio and television that has left everything pretty much standing as is.AdvertisementAnd now in the fallout, the mayor of a small city in Pennsylvania that passed its own anti-immigrant ordinance found triumph in the federal government’s inertia. A disappointed New York conservative engaged in some wishful plotting about what might come next. Townsfolk in a Mexican village worried that getting into the United States would become more perilous. Mr. Ladd braced for more crossers on his land.AdvertisementAnd Mr. Perez pedaled off to work, as the daily churn of immigration across the nation carried on. Farm work. Landscaping. Construction. Day jobs. It is all here in northern San Diego, where the stirrings of immigration largely reflect the national debate.With the first light of day, they trickle out of canyons and hills here, mostly men from the Mexican state of Oaxaca, their chattering in Spanish and Mixteco, an Indian language, filling the air.“I was in an apartment downtown when the agents came and took us all to Tijuana,” said Margarito Brito, describing his apprehension in March by Immigration and Customs Enforcement. “But I came back in April. There is always work here. I have been coming for 20 years.”A crush of migrant workers and day laborers crowd street corners and parking lots and, with a dearth of affordable apartments and farm-worker housing in the area, they drag tarps, crates and spare wood into the hills and canyons for makeshift housing.At night they can see the glitter of million-dollar homes that brush against tomato fields and hills and ravines less than a mile away, at a closeness that has made some residents of those homes uncomfortable.The migrant camps have been vandalized. Anti-immigration groups have protested the migrant workers’ presence.But men like Mr. Brito keep coming, filling a demand for cheap, convenient labor. He said he never thought legalization would happen for him or his companions, but it is just as well.AdvertisementTHE FRONT LINEA Rancher TakesHis Daily InventoryNACO, Ariz., June 29 — It was 8 a.m., and John Ladd was taking a daily inventory to see what illegal immigration had done the night before to his 14,000-acre cattle ranch on the border here in southeastern Arizona.Mr. Ladd pulled his Dodge pickup out of his driveway, through a gate and onto a dirt road leading into a rolling pastureland of desert grasses, mesquite scrub and darting jackrabbits. A few hundred yards away, he pointed to a section of cutaway fencing.“They used to be somewhat responsible and just pull the fence apart,” he said of the estimated 200 immigrants who cross his property from Mexico every day. “Now it’s just, ‘Let’s go as fast as we can.’ ”Mr. Ladd has long been disappointed with Congress for not having solved the problems on the border, and though only lukewarm about the Senate bill, he was not particularly surprised that the politicians in Washington botched it again.In recent years, tighter border security, including three camera towers that the Ladds allowed the Border Patrol to install on the 111-year-old family ranch, have only made human smugglers more frantic, as well as more organized, Mr. Ladd said.And as illegal immigration has become more lucrative, he suggested, the drug cartels in the neighboring state of Sonora have taken a stepped-up role.Mr. Ladd said he had seen it in the way that the vehicles from sleepy Naco, Sonora, that used to shuttle illegal immigrants through the desert, had been replaced by taxicabs from an organized-crime hotbed, Cananea, Sonora, 45 minutes away on a bumpy dirt road.AdvertisementAnd he has heard it from his Mexican rancher buddies, whom he meets at the border fence to chat over a can of beer.“I asked one guy about it, and he said, ‘Oh, it’s that darned cartel from Cananea,’ ” Mr. Ladd recounted.Even so, Mr. Ladd said, he is more concerned with his cut fences than with the people who send the fence cutters.“That’s what irritates me more than anything,” said Mr. Ladd, who manages two distinct herds on the ranch. “I can’t keep my cows separated anymore.”  JONATHAN CLARKTHE POST-MORTEMWishful PlottingFor the Next RoundAfter the Senate bill was stopped cold, Tamar Jacoby, a conservative Republican who helped to organize the movement to support it, went for a stiff drink and a few hours sleep. Then Ms. Jacoby returned for more Washington meetings for gloomy post-mortems and a little wishful plotting about what might come next.Ms. Jacoby, 52, went from desk-chair intellectual to phone-calling door-knocking advocate in the last few years, after reading about illegal immigrants who died in the Arizona desert trying to cross into the United States.For her, defeat came at the hands of American voters from her conservative camp who, she acknowledged, did better at galvanizing their forces.“The polls show that the public supports a practical answer to immigration,” she said. “We just didn’t tap into those sentiments as well to sell the compromise.”AdvertisementMs. Jacoby, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative research group in New York, helped organize business people, who are often hesitant to come forward, into groups in 13 states supporting the Senate package. Their button-down appeals were no match for the scorching radio, television and Internet blitz by the opponents.“Amnesty is a bumper sticker,” she said, using the word that opponents used to tar the bill as rewarding illegal immigrant lawbreakers. “We had a complicated compromise to defend. Some of us were ambivalent about it. They didn’t have an ounce of ambivalence.”JULIA PRESTONTHE FACE-OFFDisappointmentAnd SatisfactionHAZLETON, Pa., June 29 — Wyoming Street, the heart of the Hispanic business district here, has been struggling because many customers are afraid. The fear set in about a year ago when the City Council passed an ordinance intended to crack down on illegal immigration.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.It turned to despair on Thursday, as many illegal residents across the country saw one of their few opportunities to become United States citizens evaporate.“It’s a tragedy for people in this situation that the Congress couldn’t agree,” said Rudy Espinal, 39, a real estate agent who is a citizen. He came to this city about 100 miles northwest of Philadelphia in 2001 from the Dominican Republic and is president of the Hazleton Hispanic Business Association.But one man’s tragedy is often another man’s triumph. Mayor Louis J. Barletta, who championed the town’s assertive approach to immigration, used a breakfast in honor of Hazleton’s 150th anniversary to welcome the demise of the legislation, which he characterized as amnesty.“I’m pleased that the American people’s voice was heard loud and clear,” Mr. Barletta, a Republican, said at the breakfast, where organizers sold T-shirts with the motto “Hazleton: A City With Attitude.”Mr. Barletta said the pressure was back on places like Hazleton to deal with the country’s illegal immigrants, a pressure he welcomes. The city’s ordinance, which is the subject of a federal injunction pending court challenges, would penalize businesses that hire illegal immigrants, fine landlords who rent to them and establish English as the  official language.“We had no confidence the federal government would solve this problem,” he said.About a third of Hazleton’s 31,000 residents are immigrants from Central and South America, many of whom have arrived in the last five years, drawn by affordable housing and factory jobs. According to some estimates, before the ordinance was passed, about a quarter of the immigrant population was illegal. — JON HURDLEAdvertisementTHE ANXIETYThe Asian FaceOf ImmigrationFlushing is one of New York City’s most heavily Asian neighborhoods, and the immigrants who take job-training classes at the Chinese-American Planning Council in the shadow of the Whitestone Bridge are either United States citizens, like Jason Li, or green-card holders.“I’m angry” about the immigration bill, Mr. Li said in Mandarin as he took a break from a class in interviewing skills. “It’s difficult for the undocumented in America. They make their contributions to this country by working hard, mostly overtime; they work harder than the people who live here legally.”“I talked to them after hearing about the vote,” Mr. Li, 37, said, “and they’re scared. They’re more scared than ever.”A Chinese construction worker, who is 28 and did not want his name used because he is in the United States illegally, agreed, but said he had never expected it to pass.“This bill was about politicians playing games,” he said. “They never paid attention to what immigrants need. But my life won’t be disturbed by the decision. I will still work day and night, go home, cook dinner and start over the next day. The main inconvenience is that I can’t drive.” KAI MATHE NEXT STEPTechnology PreparesTo Go It AloneSAN FRANCISCO, June 29 — Lesson learned. Ralph Hellman, a lobbyist for the technology industry, is now preparing to fly solo.With a tone befitting someone who has endured his share of Congressional battles, Mr. Hellman said technology companies had a better shot at getting what they wanted on immigration by staying away from measures that offered too much to too many.“Some of the most hardcore opponents of the immigration bill are some of our strongest proponents,” he said of the failed Senate bill. “They really understand our issues, but they didn’t support the comprehensive bill.”AdvertisementAbove all, Mr. Hellman and other technology lobbyists wanted a bill that would have provided more temporary visas for scientists and engineers. Three years ago, a law tripling the number of H1B temporary visas expired, reducing them to 65,000 from 195,000 a year.The technology field never wanted the visas addressed in the comprehensive bill, Mr. Hellman said. Although the bill would have raised the cap on H1B visas, it did not adequately address the problems of workers who wanted to remain in the United States after their visas had expired.Looking ahead, Mr. Hellman said technology representatives would act fairly quickly, perhaps creating a new bill for the fall. Where it goes from there, of course, is anyone’s guess.“We’re patient,” said Mr. Hellman, a senior vice president at the Information Technology Industry Council in Washington. “We’ve been patient for three years.”  LAURIE J. FLYNNTHE DISTANCEBroken Dreams,Broken FamiliesTULCINGO DEL VALLE, Mexico, June 29 — On most every street corner in this sun-baked town, dominated by a bright yellow church and a market cluttered with fresh produce, there are stories of sundered families and twisted versions of the American dream.Almost every family here has sent someone to the United States to find work, mostly in New York City.Miguel Romero, 36, loitered outside a restaurant, looking as forlorn as a deflated balloon. For 16 years, he had worked as a glazier in Brooklyn. He married and was raising five children.But earlier this year, immigration officials arrested him while he was installing glass in a storefront in lower Manhattan, Mr. Romero said. He was deported on May 21.AdvertisementHis wife, also in the United States illegally, decided not to join him, and he says he does not blame her, since wages here average about $10 a day. He has no idea where his family is living or how they are surviving. He does not dare cross the border illegally again, for fear of getting caught and serving time in jail.“My whole life I spent up there, and it’s hard for me to come back,” he said in perfect English. “We have been up there so many years, and most of us don’t commit crimes. People that do nothing but work should get a break.”He shook his head. “It’s never going to happen,” he said.Residents here are used to promises of change in United States immigration laws that never pan out, just as they are accustomed to being separated from family members and to lining up at money-transfer agencies to collect remittances from far-flung relatives.“It’s the same that they have always done — they say they will do it but they don’t,” said René Leon, as he left a Western Union office where he had picked up some money wired by his brothers in New York. “It’s a game to them.”Palemon Gomez, a local hotel owner, said this town of 11,000 about 125 miles southeast of Mexico City had been watching the Senate immigration bill’s fortunes with a mix of fear and hope. Many residents have relatives in the United States who would have benefited from it.“There were a lot of people betting that they were going to get their residency papers through this law,” Mr. Gomez said. “If they had approved this law, the whole world would be happy.”  JAMES C. McKINLEY JR.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementPARKER, Colo.Mr. Tancredo’s district is the richest, best educated and most family friendly in Colorado (the latter based on numbers of children counted by the census). Housing prices are high and there are few immigrant-based industries like manufacturing, meat-packing or agriculture. Nearly 9 of every 10 residents are white, while less than 1 in 10 are Hispanic. In several dozen interviews across the district, most people said they didn’t even know an illegal immigrant.So why would illegal immigration be a cause célèbre in a place like this, the whitest Congressional district in Colorado?AdvertisementResidents and local political leaders say the answer comes down, at least partly, to words like “order” and “stability.” Those concerns may mask a certain amount of bigotry or bias. But the residents say they are motivated by  concerns about borders they consider broken,  leaving America open and vulnerable, especially in the post-9/11 world. Government, which many people here talk about with far more scorn and rage than they do about immigrants, has become a puppet to economic forces that demand cheap and mobile labor, they say.' short, local residents and immigration experts say, beneath the anger about immigration is great anxiety about a global economy that has made people feel less in control of their lives, their country and the culture they grew up with — wherever they work, and however nice their house is.“Globalization causes Mexicans to come because the jobs in their country are going to China,” said Chris H. Lewis, a senior lecturer at the University of Colorado who teaches Western immigration history and globalization. “And globalization makes the middle class in this country feel we don’t have a voice, that our future is being created somewhere else.”Both illegal immigrants and many here in Mr. Tancredo’s district endure transience and isolation, albeit in different ways  — from corporate relocation and outsourcing on the one hand, to old-fashioned immigrant job insecurity on the other. And both sides see the hard truth of the global job market: jobs flow downhill toward lower wages.“I’ve got all kinds of people in my district  — engineers, computer-science people especially  —  whose jobs have been eliminated by H1B,” Mr. Tancredo said in a telephone interview, referring to the federal visa program aimed at attracting foreign technical workers. “They believe, and I believe, it’s because the company found a source of cheaper labor.”Yet jobs created Parker, which had only a few hundred people as recently as 1980, and now has 45,000. The nearby Highlands Ranch area grew from literal ranch land in that same period to more than 130,000 people today. While some people surely came for the climate or to take advantage of Colorado’s outdoor lifestyle  — far more came for a job, especially in the high-tech industries in Denver, to which many people commute. Illegal immigrants have followed, as well, typically commuting to work here from enclaves in Denver where rents are relatively cheap.Stanley A. Renshon, a psychoanalyst and a professor of political science at the City University of New York, said Americans have developed what he calls a “de facto identity” that allows for diversity and individualism as long as a few core beliefs and values are shared, like personal responsibility and respect for the country. If people don’t assimilate into the broader culture, he said, then the idea that communities can coalesce is challenged  — especially in new places like Mr. Tancredo’s district where cohesion is still weak.“I’ve done a lot of review of the public-opinion polls, and Americans are foursquare against illegal immigration and foursquare for immigrants becoming Americans,” he said. “When people talk about becoming an American, that to me is the hidden core of the immigration debate.”AdvertisementSome Mexican immigrants  — legal and illegal  — cling to their old culture and language because they say that American life, whether in the new suburbs or the cities, is fragmented and rootless, lacking the richness of their traditions and culture. Equally protective of their culture, many in Mr. Tancredo’s district say illegal immigrants who don’t assimilate and learn English are in fact a major contributing cause of the cultural fragmentation.“Portugal is Portugal because of the Portuguese language; Spain is Spanish; France is  —  God knows  — France is French; Germany is Germany, all because of language,” said Dick Hanson, 71, a retired Navy man who came to Parker in the 1980s. “That, to me, is the thing that holds, that builds a country.”Mr. Tancredo makes much the same point. “The impact of immigration  — legal and illegal  —  on jobs, schools, health care, the environment, national security, are all very serious problems,” he said. “But more serious than all of them put together is this threat to the culture. I believe we are in a clash of civilizations.”Bill Lieb, a 52-year-old business-owner and Republican from Highlands Ranch, said he generally supported Mr. Tancredo. He said nonetheless that the American economy had become dependent on immigrants, both legal and illegal, and that the challenge was to come up with a policy to provide for those labor needs and fix what he said was “unregulated, uncontrolled chaos” at the borders.He said his business trips to Mexico and China have made him more sympathetic to the plight of illegal immigrants. The Mexican government supports only the rich, he said.“If I lived there, I’d want to get the hell out, too,” he said.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSAN DIEGO, June 29 — Ediberto Perez pedaled his bicycle out of a canyon shantytown in this border city’s northern outskirts where he and other migrant workers scratch out a living.“Until they dry up the jobs, they’re never going to secure the border,” Mr. Ladd said.The day after the Senate failed to move on a proposal for the broadest change in immigration law in two decades, it was a time to take stock of a debate that played out something like a neutron bomb: blasts of rhetoric, of speeches, marches and convulsing in Congress and on talk radio and television that has left everything pretty much standing as is.AdvertisementAdvertisementAnd Mr. Perez pedaled off to work, as the daily churn of immigration across the nation carried on. Farm work. Landscaping. Construction. Day jobs. It is all here in northern San Diego, where the stirrings of immigration largely reflect the national debate.With the first light of day, they trickle out of canyons and hills here, mostly men from the Mexican state of Oaxaca, their chattering in Spanish and Mixteco, an Indian language, filling the air.“I was in an apartment downtown when the agents came and took us all to Tijuana,” said Margarito Brito, describing his apprehension in March by Immigration and Customs Enforcement. “But I came back in April. There is always work here. I have been coming for 20 years.”A crush of migrant workers and day laborers crowd street corners and parking lots and, with a dearth of affordable apartments and farm-worker housing in the area, they drag tarps, crates and spare wood into the hills and canyons for makeshift housing.At night they can see the glitter of million-dollar homes that brush against tomato fields and hills and ravines less than a mile away, at a closeness that has made some residents of those homes uncomfortable.The migrant camps have been vandalized. Anti-immigration groups have protested the migrant workers’ presence.But men like Mr. Brito keep coming, filling a demand for cheap, convenient labor. He said he never thought legalization would happen for him or his companions, but it is just as well.AdvertisementTHE FRONT LINEA Rancher Takes His Daily InventoryNACO, Ariz., June 29 — It was 8 a.m., and John Ladd was taking a daily inventory to see what illegal immigration had done the night before to his 14,000-acre cattle ranch on the border here in southeastern Arizona.Mr. Ladd pulled his Dodge pickup out of his driveway, through a gate and onto a dirt road leading into a rolling pastureland of desert grasses, mesquite scrub and darting jackrabbits. A few hundred yards away, he pointed to a section of cutaway fencing.“They used to be somewhat responsible and just pull the fence apart,” he said of the estimated 200 immigrants who cross his property from Mexico every day. “Now it’s just, ‘Let’s go as fast as we can.’ ”Mr. Ladd has long been disappointed with Congress for not having solved the problems on the border, and though only lukewarm about the Senate bill, he was not particularly surprised that the politicians in Washington botched it again.In recent years, tighter border security, including three camera towers that the Ladds allowed the Border Patrol to install on the 111-year-old family ranch, have only made human smugglers more frantic, as well as more organized, Mr. Ladd said.And as illegal immigration has become more lucrative, he suggested, the drug cartels in the neighboring state of Sonora have taken a stepped-up role.Mr. Ladd said he had seen it in the way that the vehicles from sleepy Naco, Sonora, that used to shuttle illegal immigrants through the desert, had been replaced by taxicabs from an organized-crime hotbed, Cananea, Sonora, 45 minutes away on a bumpy dirt road.AdvertisementAnd he has heard it from his Mexican rancher buddies, whom he meets at the border fence to chat over a can of beer.“I asked one guy about it, and he said, ‘Oh, it’s that darned cartel from Cananea,’ ” Mr. Ladd recounted.Even so, Mr. Ladd said, he is more concerned with his cut fences than with the people who send the fence cutters.“That’s what irritates me more than anything,” said Mr. Ladd, who manages two distinct herds on the ranch. “I can’t keep my cows separated anymore.”  JONATHAN CLARKTHE COUNTRYSIDEUnusual Treatment Breeds DiscontentGAINESVILLE, Ga., June 29 — Here in the self-proclaimed Poultry Capital of the World, where one-fourth of the 173,000 Hall County residents are classified as Hispanic, some longtime residents eating at the Collegiate Diner were pleased that the immigration overhaul had failed.Among them was Greg Vandiver, 48, who works for a manufacturer of agricultural processing equipment. Mr. Vandiver joined a co-worker, David Walker, 42, for burgers. Until it upset a Hispanic co-worker, a piece of paper taped to Mr. Vandiver’s desk asked, “Why should I have to press 1 for English?” — a reference to the standard response on companies’ automated message machines.“I don’t have a problem with the Mexicans,” Mr. Vandiver said. But he said he took issue with the illegal immigrants whom he says threaten Americans’ jobs and received free medical care, which he pays for.“We seem to be bending over backward to make them happy,” he said, “and it seems to be at the American people’s expense. Last time I checked, this was America.”AdvertisementOne booth over, three teachers’ aides from Lyman Hall Elementary School, where they say 98 percent of the 700-member student body is Latino, voiced similar sentiments.Gayle Davis, 58, who has lived here most of her life, called the bill “amnesty — no ifs ands or buts.”Ms. Davis said a litany of problems had accompanied the influx of immigrants, including Hispanic gangs and poor housekeeping. In her parents’ modest neighborhood, she said, 25 immigrants crowd into a single-family house.“Would you want to live in that neighborhood?” she asked.She fears that chickens roaming in the yard have harmed resale values in that area. Phebe  Etheredge, a real estate agent in Atlanta, said values in neighborhoods with tenants in high-occupancy houses often depreciated.Allison Kinzel, 48, said she was torn between admiration for immigrants’ commitment to improve their lives and concern for how the country would shoulder them.“It would break my heart for some of our kids to be deported,” Ms. Kinzel said, but “America is not going to be able to afford this for long.”  RACHEL POMERANCETHE POST-MORTEMWishful Plotting For the Next RoundAfter the Senate bill was stopped cold, Tamar Jacoby, a conservative Republican who helped to organize the movement to support it, went for a stiff drink and a few hours sleep. Then Ms. Jacoby returned for more Washington meetings for gloomy post-mortems and a little wishful plotting about what might come next.Ms. Jacoby, 52, went from desk-chair intellectual to phone-calling door-knocking advocate in the last few years, after reading about illegal immigrants who died in the Arizona desert trying to cross into the United States.AdvertisementFor her, defeat came at the hands of American voters from her conservative camp who, she acknowledged, did better at galvanizing their forces.“The polls show that the public supports a practical answer to immigration,” she said. “We just didn’t tap into those sentiments as well to sell the compromise.”Ms. Jacoby, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative research group in New York, helped organize business people, who are often hesitant to come forward, into groups in 13 states supporting the Senate package. Their button-down appeals were no match for the scorching radio, television and Internet blitz by the opponents.“Amnesty is a bumper sticker,” she said, using the word that opponents used to tar the bill as rewarding illegal immigrant lawbreakers. “We had a complicated compromise to defend. Some of us were ambivalent about it. They didn’t have an ounce of ambivalence.” JULIA PRESTONTHE FACE-OFFDisappointment And SatisfactionHAZLETON, Pa., June 29 — Wyoming Street, the heart of the Hispanic business district here, has been struggling because many customers are afraid. The fear set in about a year ago when the City Council passed an ordinance intended to crack down on illegal immigration.It turned to despair on Thursday, as many illegal residents across the country saw one of their few opportunities to become United States citizens evaporate.“It’s a tragedy for people in this situation that the Congress couldn’t agree,” said Rudy Espinal, 39, a real estate agent who is a citizen. He came to this city about 100 miles northwest of Philadelphia in 2001 from the Dominican Republic and is president of the Hazleton Hispanic Business Association.But one man’s tragedy is often another man’s triumph. Mayor Louis J. Barletta, who championed the town’s assertive approach to immigration, used a breakfast in honor of Hazleton’s 150th anniversary to welcome the demise of the legislation, which he characterized as amnesty.Advertisement“I’m pleased that the American people’s voice was heard loud and clear,” Mr. Barletta, a Republican, said at the breakfast, where organizers sold T-shirts with the motto “Hazleton: A City With Attitude.”Mr. Barletta said the pressure was back on places like Hazleton to deal with the country’s illegal immigrants, a pressure he welcomes. The city’s ordinance, which is the subject of a federal injunction pending court challenges, would penalize businesses that hire illegal immigrants, fine landlords who rent to them and establish English as the  official language.“We had no confidence the federal government would solve this problem,” he said.About a third of Hazleton’s 31,000 residents are immigrants from Central and South America, many of whom have arrived in the last five years, drawn by affordable housing and factory jobs. According to some estimates, before the ordinance was passed, about a quarter of the immigrant population was illegal.Amilcar Arroyo, the publisher of El Mensajero, a Spanish-language newspaper in Hazleton, became a United States citizen in 1995 after emigrating from Peru in 1989. Mr. Arroyo said other immigrants, including those here illegally, should be given the opportunity to assimilate, a stand that has made him unpopular with some supporters of the city’s ordinance.“We come here to be Americans,” Mr. Arroyo said. “Now they call me a traitor.” JON HURDLEAIRWAVESPlease verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Day of Exultation For Talk Radio HostsTalk radio crackled with banter over the immigration bill, long fodder for rhetoric.Conservative hosts, who had urged listeners to press their senators to vote against the overhaul, celebrated its demise and mocked President Bush’s promise that the bill would end up on his desk, behind a stand of gleaming black pens.“Jorge, don’t count your huevos before they hatch,” Laura Ingraham said on her syndicated program. “You, the people, had a victory. You need to enjoy this weekend coming up.”Ms. Ingraham referred to the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, as Sanctu-Harry and poked fun at Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, whose support for the bill she said could cost him his seat in the next election.AdvertisementRush Limbaugh surmised that some Democrats ultimately voted against the immigration bill because of pressure from constituents. “I think they were hearing from a lot of people from their own side of the aisle on this,” Mr. Limbaugh told his listeners.Another conservative radio host, Sean Hannity, led off with praise for the audience and called yesterday a “day of celebration.”“Pat yourselves on the back,” Mr. Hannity said. “America is better off, safer, more secure. Democracy in action works!” DAN FROSCHTHE ANXIETYThe Asian Face Of ImmigrationFlushing is one of New York City’s most heavily Asian neighborhoods, and the immigrants who take job-training classes at the Chinese-American Planning Council in the shadow of the Whitestone Bridge are either United States citizens, like Jason Li, or green-card holders.“I’m angry” about the immigration bill, Mr. Li said in Mandarin as he took a break from a class in interviewing skills. “It’s difficult for the undocumented in America. They make their contributions to this country by working hard, mostly overtime; they work harder than the people who live here legally.”“I talked to them after hearing about the vote,” Mr. Li, 37, said, “and they’re scared. They’re more scared than ever.”A Chinese construction worker, who is 28 and did not want his name used because he is in the United States illegally, agreed, but said he had never expected it to pass.“This bill was about politicians playing games,” he said. “They never paid attention to what immigrants need. But my life won’t be disturbed by the decision. I will still work day and night, go home, cook dinner and start over the next day. The main inconvenience is that I can’t drive.”AdvertisementMona Lee, a community development coordinator at the Flushing Y.W.C.A., had marched in Los Angeles in support of the bill, although her family, who emigrated from South Korea in the 1970s, opposed it.“Our economy is dependent upon this informal group of people,” Ms. Lee said. “People think this is just a Latino issue, but it’s not. It’s an Asian issue, a human issue.”As for her family, she said: “I remind them that we were once immigrants. The only difference was that it was easier to get through at that time.” KAI MATHE NEXT STEPTechnology Prepares To Go It AloneSAN FRANCISCO, June 29 — Lesson learned. Ralph Hellman, a lobbyist for the technology industry, is now preparing to fly solo.With a tone befitting someone who has endured his share of Congressional battles, Mr. Hellman said technology companies had a better shot at getting what they wanted on immigration by staying away from measures that offered too much to too many.“Some of the most hardcore opponents of the immigration bill are some of our strongest proponents,” he said of the failed Senate bill. “They really understand our issues, but they didn’t support the comprehensive bill.”Above all, Mr. Hellman and other technology lobbyists wanted a bill that would have provided more temporary visas for scientists and engineers. Three years ago, a law tripling the number of H1B temporary visas expired, reducing them to 65,000 from 195,000 a year.The technology field never wanted the visas addressed in the comprehensive bill, Mr. Hellman said. Although the bill would have raised the cap on H1B visas, it did not adequately address the problems of workers who wanted to remain in the United States after their visas had expired.AdvertisementLooking ahead, Mr. Hellman said technology representatives would act fairly quickly, perhaps creating a new bill for the fall. Where it goes from there, of course, is anyone’s guess.“We’re patient,” said Mr. Hellman, a senior vice president at the Information Technology Industry Council in Washington. “We’ve been patient for three years.”  LAURIE J. FLYNNTHE CASINO INDUSTRYDire Warnings Of a Labor ShortageLAS VEGAS, June 29 — Hotel and casino executives here are clearly worried. Without the immigration bill, where will they find acrobats for two new Cirque du Soleil extravaganzas set to open by 2009? Where will the world-class chefs for the five-star restaurants come from? What about all the other people needed for jobs unique to this 24/7 gambling resort?“There are between 200 and 500 people for whom some sort of reform is critically important, the people who would be the head chefs at the better restaurants, the people who would run a hotel or two, certainly the performers and theater technicians,” said Alan Feldman, senior vice president at MGM Mirage, which with nine resorts is Nevada’s biggest private employer. “We end up having to do a series of temporary visas and hiring lawyers who do nothing but this full time. We have almost a mini-immigration department.”Without changes promised in the legislation, MGM Mirage executives said, it will be hard to fully staff the six buildings of the $7.6 billion CityCenter complex the company is building at the heart of the Strip.While the casino industry insists it does not hire illegal immigrants, many employees have temporary status or have relatives who are in the United States illegally.“I don’t know where opponents of this bill think we’re going to get all the labor to run our businesses,” said Harrah’s senior vice president, Jan Laverty Jones, a former mayor of Las Vegas. “This affects everyone.”Adan M., 17 and a recent high school graduate, feels the effects keenly. Adan, a United States citizen by birth, works for about $7 an hour at a gift shop inside the New York-New York Hotel and Casino. He asked that his last name not be used because his mother, who cleans houses, is here illegally from Mexico and therefore cannot get a better-paying casino job. Without a path to citizenship for her, Adan said, he will not be able to go to college because his mother and little brother depend on his income to help pay the $750 rent on their small two-bedroom apartment.AdvertisementThe bill’s failure “is going to hold us back, citizens of the United States,” Adan said outside a Young Hispanic Leadership Conference event that included a tour of the region’s colleges. Its opponents “do not understand what the American children are going through, that we’re suddenly being held back from going to colleges, from being successful leaders, from climbing the ladder far higher than those before us have already climbed it, from just being great people here in this country.” STEVE FRIESSTHE DISTANCEBroken Dreams, Broken FamiliesTULCINGO DEL VALLE, Mexico, June 29 — On most every street corner in this sun-baked town, dominated by a bright yellow church and a market cluttered with fresh produce, there are stories of sundered families and twisted versions of the American dream.Almost every family here has sent someone to the United States to find work, mostly in New York City.Miguel Romero, 36, loitered outside a restaurant, looking as forlorn as a deflated balloon. For 16 years, he had worked as a glazier in Brooklyn. He married and was raising five children.But earlier this year, immigration officials arrested him while he was installing glass in a storefront in lower Manhattan, Mr. Romero said. He was deported on May 21.His wife, also in the United States illegally, decided not to join him, and he says he does not blame her, since wages here average about $10 a day. He has no idea where his family is living or how they are surviving. He does not dare cross the border illegally again, for fear of getting caught and serving time in jail.“My whole life I spent up there, and it’s hard for me to come back,” he said in perfect English. “We have been up there so many years, and most of us don’t commit crimes. People that do nothing but work should get a break.”He shook his head. “It’s never going to happen,” he said.Residents here are used to promises of change in United States immigration laws that never pan out, just as they are accustomed to being separated from family members and to lining up at money-transfer agencies to collect remittances from far-flung relatives.Advertisement“It’s the same that they have always done — they say they will do it but they don’t,” said René Leon, as he left a Western Union office where he had picked up some money wired by his brothers in New York. “It’s a game to them.”Palemon Gomez, a local hotel owner, said this town of 11,000 about 125 miles southeast of Mexico City had been watching the Senate immigration bill’s fortunes with a mix of fear and hope. Many residents have relatives in the United States who would have benefited from it.“There were a lot of people betting that they were going to get their residency papers through this law,” Mr. Gomez said. “If they had approved this law, the whole world would be happy.”  JAMES C. McKINLEY JR.THE NORTHAvoiding the Inspections And Bypassing AgricultureBUFFALO, June 29 — Two lanes of traffic waiting to enter Buffalo via the Peace Bridge stretched most of the way back to Fort Erie, Ontario, waiting to clear customs.Inspectors ask everyone trying to cross to declare their citizenship and provide identification. They pull over some vehicles to look for drugs, weapons or other contraband. Seldom do they find anyone trying to sneak into the country.“We rarely find them hiding in a trunk or in a container,” a Customs and Border Protection spokesman, Kevin Corsaro, said. “Everyone who comes up knows they’re going to be inspected. I think that’s why people usually try outside the port of entry.”More often, illegal immigrants, who have usually paid established smuggling rings for passage from Asia, Africa or South America to Canada, try navigating the lakes and rivers that divide Ontario from the western end of New York, particularly the Niagara River, which connects Buffalo to Niagara Falls. Narrowing in places to as little as 1,500 feet wide, the river is a favored crossing point for smugglers of human cargo, as it was for bootleggers during Prohibition.In June 2004, United States Border Patrol agents intercepted a raft carrying six adults and two children from India and Pakistan and a Canadian man who had been paid $300 to pilot a small, inflatable motorized boat as it tried to breach the river dangerously close to the brink of the falls.AdvertisementBetween illegal immigrants caught crossing the border and those living in the area, federal immigration courts were more than 25 percent busier in 2006 than in 2005, according to Justice Department statistics.Stricter enforcement has had a chilling effect on the agricultural belt that runs between Buffalo and Rochester, one vegetable grower said, with migrant workers who are in the United States legally worried about getting caught up in increasingly frequent crackdowns by immigration agents.“There’s not enough labor around,” said Maureen Torrey Marshall of Torrey Farms in Elba, N.Y., a supporter of the failed measure. “People decide they can go work in the city, where these sweeps aren’t taking place. To be a brown-skinned person in Western New York right now, even if you were born here, is tough. We just make an assumption that you’re illegal.” DAVID STABAGo to Home Page »Mr. Brooks conveniently ignores the painful truth that many of the scarce places in Harvard’s entering classes are filled by legacies — students who had the good fortune to be born into the right family.But perhaps Mr. Brooks’ analogy is more apt than I give him credit for.  After all, how did a thoroughly mediocre student like George W. Bush get into Yale University?With immigration in particular, we have no control over the other side of the equation — the other side of the border — so there is the possibility of a continuing disconnect between intent and practice. Which is to say that the people who most want to come here are probably those who have the least opportunity to build these sort of advantages in their own country — they may lack the economy, opportunity or stability necessary for them to pursue this kind of long term goal.Conversely, while those most likely to have made these advancements in their own country may be more desirable immigrants, they are for the same reason probably less motivated to leave their home. While incentive-based thinking is to be greatly encouraged, the only serious offers we can make are, unfortunately, those based on the experience and activities of immigrants while they are here. Any assumptions based on what can be achieved in their home countries are an inherent weakness in the plan — factors beyond our control, and possibly theirs.Perhaps America as the Harvard of immigration is not a particularly appropriate metaphor, at least from the immigrant’s point of view. America is definitely a lofty goal, a greatly desirable target, the first prize of immigration — but perhaps the imagery of an elite institution may not match what is going through the mind, and the reality, of the most motivated immigrants?Second, the requirement of leaving the country in order to receive a visa will provide an incentive to not apply for these visas.  Immigrants who leave will not have any guarantees about being able to return, at least not in the way the law is written now.  Who can guarantee them that in leaving they will be able to come back?  The majority of immigrants who come here illegally come because they cannot earn enough in their home countries in order to feed, clothe and house their families adequately.  Who is going to provide for those families when immigrants have to return to their countries and wait for visas?  If most donor countries suffer from high chronic unemployment, for which the only release valve is the high emigration they experience, what are those who have to return going to do?This bill does not seem to understand the phenomenon of immigration.  Immigrants do not come here because the U.S. is some sort of Garden of Eden.  They come because they cannot earn enough in their own countries.  Many cannot find work of any kind there.  Many come here with degrees from universities in their country to work as construction workers or housekeepers, because they earn more here doing that than they do working in their own countries as doctors, lawyers or accountants.  Illegal immigration will not be solved by this law, nor by any other that does not recognize and seek to alter the economic incentives posed by other countries for their citizens to come here.  They will keep coming.  Neither laws nor walls will halt the flow.  Until we recognize that enforcement approaches within one country will not solve nor address problems of many countries, we will not be able to change the flow of immigration.Comments are no longer being accepted.David Brooks has been an Op-Ed columnist at The Times since September 2003. He is the author of "Bobos In Paradise: The New Upper Class and How They Got There," "On Paradise Drive: How We Live Now (And Always Have) in the Future Tense" and, most recently, “The Social Animal: The Hidden Sources of Love, Character and Achievement.”This blog covers the intellectual, cultural and scientific findings that land on David Brooks's desk nearly everyday but don't always make it into his twice-weekly column or his conversations with his fellow columnist Gail Collins.FollowAdvertisementAdvertisementJUST a few years ago, lawmakers were in full cry about the supposed dangers of immigration -- from crime to welfare cheats to lost jobs.Yet now Congress is poised to pass a bill that would grant visas to tens of thousands more temporary high-tech workers from abroad. And an unlikely coalition of business and immigrants rights groups is pushing to fling the door open wider: to unskilled workers who could fill shortages in hotels and on farms, and even to roll back an array of restrictive measures passed with great fanfare in 1996.Clearly, the national conversation about immigrants and immigration has changed dramatically. Representative Howard L. Berman, a Democrat from California, described the political momentum generated by the temporary workers bill this way: ''There's a train going through. Can I get on it?''Sometime later this summer, Congress is expected to pass H1B, which would nearly double, to 200,000, the number of such visas issued every year for the next three years. The measure has bipartisan support, including the blessings of both presumptive Presidential candidates .AdvertisementIf it passes, H1B will be the largest guest worker measure since the 1942 bracero program, which imported millions of Mexicans farmworkers into virtual servitude, until it was dismantled in 1964.AdvertisementA broad new service industry coalition, representing everything from hospitals to hotels, is seeking its own temporary workers from abroad. And agribusiness, which has unsuccessfully lobbied for temporary field workers in the past, has renewed its efforts.Meanwhile, traditional immigrants rights groups are urging lawmakers to lift the 1996 measures that bar immigrants from some government benefits, tighten political asylum rules and require the automatic deportation of non-citizens who had been convicted of certain felony crimes.A coalition calling itself ''Fix 96,'' is urging lawmakers to repeal the mandatory deportation law and restore social security benefits and food stamps to immigrants who arrived after 1996; benefits to pre-1996 immigrants have already been restored.Another coalition of business and civil rights groups is calling on Congress to grant legal status to some 300,000 immigrants who fled political violence in El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti and Honduras but were denied refugee status in this country. The same group wants Congress to raise the cap on family reunification visas, while religious leaders and a left-right coalition led by Henry Cisneros and Jack Kemp have called for amnesty for others who have lived here illegally for many years.In what Rick Swartz, a leading immigration lobbyist, calls the ''H1B- plus'' strategy, activists are trying to bundle both the family reunification and amnesty proposals with the high-tech worker bill, turning it into a kind of omnibus immigration measure.''The economy is very strong right now and who knows what it's going to look like a year from now,'' Mr. Swarz said. ''A strong economy enables you to do more. Secondly, an election year in which the politics of immigration may be more positive than negative. Third, you have both major presidential candidates being pro-immigrant at least in their rhetoric.''Of course, good times have usually meant open doors, and these are, economically, the best times ever. Still, none of the other immigration bills enjoy anything like the consensus surrounding H1B. The farm lobby's guest  worker bill, which the House immigration subcommittee debated Thursday, is likely to face strong opposition from labor and Latino groups, who don't accept the industry's claims of a labor shortage. They want a provision to legalize the immigration status of farm workers, a majority of whom are undocumented Hispanic immigrants, while the industry bill would allow some farm workers to gain permanent residency.AdvertisementJohn Young, executive director of the New England Apple Council who heads the immigration committee of the National Council of Agricultural Employers, remains optimistic. ''I think the opportunity is very good for passage, better than it has been in the past few years,'' he said.ASERVICE industry umbrella group called the Essential Worker Coalition also cites labor shortages in tourism and other trades, and has just begun what it likes to call an H1B program tailored for groundskeepers, housekeepers and other low-skilled workers, many of them seasonal.''The high-tech industry has done a very good job in making their case,'' argued John Gay, a lobbyist for the American Hotel and Motel association and a spokesman for the coalition. ''We need to do the same making our case.''Many service industry workers are illegal immigrants from Central America and Haiti, and Mr. Gay's group has thrown its support behind the National Council of La Raza, a leading Latino rights group, which proposes amnesty for undocumented immigrants who have lived and worked here since 1986.One area in which there has been little movement has been the restoration of government benefits that were cut in 1996. A number of bills have been introduced to repeal the mandatory deportation law, but none have made it out of the immigration subcommittees. Efforts to restore the due process rights of asylum-seekers have had a similar fate.To Mr. Swartz, the reason is clear. ''It's harder to get the business community to support a bill on the legal rights of people getting deported,'' he pointed out, ''than to get a legalization program for Central Americans who are working in their restaurants.''Go to Home Page »' a significant shift of United States policy toward immigrants, Congressional Republicans and the White House agreed yesterday on a budget proposal that could benefit thousands of immigrants and the Federal agency that serves them.The agreement lets about 49,000 Haitian refugees stay in the United States legally, increases the number of specialized foreign workers allowed in the country and earmarks $171 million for the Immigration and Naturalization Service to reduce its backlog of citizenship applications (About 1.9 million people are waiting to become citizens).The deal, which would have seemed impossible two years ago with Congress's anti-immigrant mood, was the result of new Senate leadership, bipartisan alliances, heavy lobbying from advocacy groups, a coincidence of agendas among the Congressional Black Caucus and Republican senators, as well as White House pressure.But negotiations that led to the agreement were not smooth. Practically all immigration issues were hotly contested until the end, including the amount of money earmarked for citizenship efforts.' addition, the House did not accept a measure to grant Haitians the right to apply for residency status until the conference committees met to produce a compromise earlier this month.AdvertisementAnd the wrangling over the visas for specialized high-tech workers drew the threat of a veto from a White House concerned that there were not proper protections for American workers.''It was tough going all the way,'' said Maria Echaveste, deputy chief of staff to the President and one of the main advisers to White House negotiators on immigration.Ms. Echaveste said Congress had ''overreached'' when it voted for measures in 1996 that restricted immigration and affected the lives of legal residents. The current agreement, she said, would impart some balance to those laws.None of the measures directly reverses any of the immigration laws of 1996, but they represent the first good news that immigrants and their advocates have received in a long time. Some advocates said the agreement is telling because it reflects that both Democrats and Republicans are eager to please immigrants, hoping to earn their trust and, eventually, their votes.''It's a rare day indeed,'' said Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum. ''It's a new day when immigrants are viewed not as easy targets, but as a powerful new constituency.''Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Advocates for immigrants are particularly pleased that Haitian refugees who have been in this country since 1995 can stay permanently. They will receive the same benefits that were granted last year to about 150,000 Nicaraguans and about 5,000 Cubans, who, like Haitians, came to the United States to escape political turmoil.Black Congressional leaders complained that leaving Haitians out of the bill amounted to racial discrimination, and Florida's Senators, Connie Mack, a Republican, and Bob Graham, a Democrat, introduced the Haitian Refugees Immigration Fairness Act. Most Haitians who will benefit from the bill live in South Florida. Neither Senator was available for comment yesterday, but aides called the agreement a victory.Negotiators from the White House and Congress also agreed to a 30-month delay to implement a law that, as of today, would have forced border patrol officers to track every person entering and leaving the United States from Mexico and Canada.AdvertisementThe measure would have caused border delays of up to 24 hours that would have hurt businesses and cost millions of dollars in delayed or lost trade, critics said.Several immigration initiatives were dropped from the final bill. As a result, the immigration service will remain one agency and American farmers will not be allowed to bring in tens of thousand of foreigners to work in the fields.But the deal struck yesterday does allow the immigration agency to nearly double the number of employment visas available for skilled foreign workers, a measure that was sought by high-tech industries and introduced in Congress by Senator Spencer Abraham, Republican of Michigan.There are 65,000 of the so-called H1B visas available for skilled foreign workers; the bill increases the number to 115,000 for the next two years and sets the number at 107,500 in the third year.MIRTA OJITOGo to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWe are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com.Go to Home Page »